#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=grid_a_DataGridSolutions
Data Grid Solutions - SRB
Introduction:
Data management in Grid is crucial considering the large quantities of data generated from scientific instruments and long running computational simulations.
To enable data oriented applications, GARUDA provides integrated but distributed data storage architecture by deploying the Storage Resource Broker (SRB) from Nirvana.
Features:
Uniform Namespace: Files can be accessed with same name from anywhere in SRB irrespective of the physical location or the underlying resource of the file.
Heterogeneous Resource management: SRB manages different kinds of resources, like Linux and Solaris.
Security: SRB has fine-grained users access control and provides secure data transfer with the use of GSI.
Scalability and plug-ability: Resource and sites can be added any time by buying new licenses.
This is an essential feature required for a grid
Data replication & Synchronization: SRB has the facility of replicating data at different sites as per the policies set by the administrator.
This is a very demanding feature which is required by GARUDA grid in order to recover data in cases of disasters.
Data Resource usage and monitoring: This is a utility tool developed at CDAC Bangalore for administrators to keep track of the storage resource availability.
Deployment and Availability:
Current deployment of GARUDA data storage, depicted in figure 1 has been done with SRB (version SRB07 SP6) across CDAC Bangalore and Pune with storage capacity of 1TB each..
GARUDA data grid is available through various client interfaces:
Web Client: Accessed through browser.
No client side installation required but either of the servers should be accessible from the client site.
Generic client: Installation required at client sites.
It can be accessed by running executables.
API client : C and Java APIs are available, which needs to be embedded inside the user applications in order to access SRB.
Gateway client: Can be accessed by mounting to SRB collections on the local machine mount point.
Client side installation is required for this
Past Activities:
Administrative Utility to view storage details in terms of total and used storage space.
Integration with Grid Monitoring tool for monitoring data resources.
Performance study of file transfer using SRB file transfer protocol.
Configured replication for disaster recovery and load balancing.
Future Activities:
Integrating SRB with SRM.
Providing support to GARUDA application users for data grid.
GARUDA Data Management with SRM
Storage Resource Manager is the data management solution based on open standards.
SRM services provide Web Service interfaces supporting dynamic space reservation (e.g., srmReserveSpace, srmReleaseSpace), data transfer (e.g., srmPrepareToGet, srmPrepareToPut), directory functions (e.g., srmMkdir, srmRmdir) and file management (e.g., srmLs, srmRm).
SRMs does not do the data transfer by themselves rather calls out to other services to perform the transfer based on protocols specified by the user such as gsiftp.
The main objective of this project is to develop Storage Resource Manager (SRM) component customized for GARUDA users.
Advantages of SRM in Garuda Grid (w.r.t SOA)
SRM works as a webservice that adheres to OGF standards
Easily integrates with GRID services like Information service , MDS , RLS.
Provides space reservation for data intensive applications
Provides security using GSI , VOMS
Access to mass storage systems
Interoperable with other Grid deployments such as EGEE
Proposed Multi Site SRM Deployment in GARUDA Grid:
Study of different possible GARUDA data management approaches like IRODS, SRM, Grid file systems.
Installation and testing of various data management tools and comparison with currently deployed SRB in GARUDA.
Integrating Data replication services with SRM for backup, load balancing and performance.
header
