#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mlc_gist_idn_activities
Internationalized Domain Names
Activities
Indian Language ccTLDs
Events
Downloads
Useful links
Contact Us
.IN ccTLD implementation
ICANN Projects
Variant Issues Project
Individual Case Study Phase
C-DAC GIST was involved with an ICANN initiative “Variant Issues Project” which was focusing on variant issues that can arise while dealing with IDNs at large.
For this, ICANN had selected six script families across the world viz. Devanagari, Latin, Arabic, Cyrillic, Greek and Chinese.
These case studies were expected to complete two primary tasks:
To create a commonly understood glossary of terms and ensure that such terms are accurate, consistent, and vetted with appropriate technical and linguistic communities
Identify the set of challenges of working with IDN variant TLDs that are based on
linguistic accuracy
technical feasibility
usability
accessibility
security and stability
This project was divided in two phases.
First phase was for individual case studies to concentrate on the issues within their scripts and come-up with an "Issues Report".
Click here for detail report »
Integrated Issues Report
The next phase of this project involved creating a single consolidated issues report that will take into account the pertinent issues from the individual case-study reports.
To initiate this step, ICANN announced the formation of a team comprised of experts from the existing case study teams.
The chosen team advised ICANN in completing the Integrated Issues Report.
The report explored the issues associated with the potential inclusion of IDN variant TLDs in the DNS root zone.
The report also includes recommendations for additional work for taking the issues identified in the report and identifying potential solutions.
Label Generation Ruleset
"The Development and Maintenance of the Label Generation Rules (LGR) for the DNS Root Zone in Respect of IDNA Labels, Project (P2.1)" –The main aim of this project was to develop the Process for the creation and maintenance of the LGR.
The Project Team consisted of a number of consultant experts recruited by ICANN, supported by a team of Internet community experts from across the globe.
After a series of discussions on-line, two face-to-face session in Los Angeles and in ICANN Toronto meeting draft of the document on the "Procedure to Develop and Maintain the Label Generation Rules for the Root Zone in Respect of IDNA Labels" was published for public comment.
Currently this project is into its implementation phase.
Examining the User Experience Implications of Active Variant TLDs
"Examining the User Experience Implications of Active Variant TLDs Project (P6)" – The main aim of this project was to develop an understanding of the issues that needed to be addressed to ensure that the users experience when dealing with IDN Variant TLDs is satisfactory, reliable and predictable.
(Users include end users, software developers, and applications developers).
The output of this project informed the later project work.
The first draft document from this project was published after the ICANN Toronto Public Meeting held in October.
C-DAC had given the feedback on 9 November, 2012 on the interim report published by ICANN which has been incorporated in the final draft Report published on 18th January 2013.
header
