#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=prs_rl207
NASSCOM Innovation Award 2012-Runner Up, in the category of "New Technology Advancement"
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
NASSCOM Innovation Award 2012-Runner Up, in "New Technology Advancement"
February 15, 2012
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), one of the Premier R&D Organization under the Ministry of Communications and IT, Government of India has left an undeniable mark by bagging the prestigious NASSCOM Innovation Award 2012-Runner Up, in the category of “New Technology Advancement”, held at NASSCOM India Leadership Forum, Mumbai.
The award was presented by Shri Jyotiraditya Madhavrao Scindia, Honorable Minister of State, Commerce and Industry, Government of India.
This award has been conferred to C-DAC by a jury consisting of experts and eminent personalities from the Industry and academia, for its indigenously developed Disaster Recovery -Revival 2000 Appliance.
More than 400 applications were received by NASSCOM for these prestigious awards.
Disaster Recovery (DR) & Business Continuity is a hard & complex problem in IT that has been seeking an effective and vendor-neutral solution for quite some time.
Revival 2000 appears on the scene at the right time.
Revival 2000 is the culmination of our R&D efforts in the domain of Internet Protocol based- Storage Area Networks (IP-SAN).
A dedicated team of engineers and researchers has been working on developing innovative block-replication algorithms using the iSCSi protocol suite.
After successfully developing an IP-SAN storage appliance, this team went ahead to customize it for the Disaster Recovery application.
NASSCOM, a premier organization that represents and sets the tone for public policy for the Indian software industry provides a prestigious platform through its Flagship events like NASSCOM Innovation Awards where it recognizes institutions that are doing innovative work and adding value to the industry.
Speaking on the occasion, Shri Zia Saquib, Executive Director, CDAC Mumbai said, “This award is an acknowledgement of CDAC’s spirit of innovation and technology leadership in niche areas.
Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity has long been a challenge in IT.
It is an honor to receive this award on the occasion of NASSCOM leadership forum.
Our team of dedicated researchers has provided the industry with an indigenous and vendor-agnostic product in this challenging area.
This will go a long way in offering IT Organizations, System Integrators and OEM’s an out-of-the-box solution.”
Revival 2000 Appliance has been successfully deployed at Data Centres in Delhi and Hyderabad under the National Services Delivery Gateway (NSDG), a mission mode project of National e-Governance Plan and has been audited and tested by STQC.
A patent for this technology is pending in the Indian Patent Office.
For more information and product queries, please contact:
Internet Protocol Storage Networking
Rain Tree Marg, Near Bharati Vidyapeeth,
OppositeKharghar Railway Station,
Sector-7, CBD-Belapur, Navi Mumbai 400614.
Phone Number +91-22-25675303 Ext-316
Fax.Number +91-22-27560004
E-Mail:saquib@cdac.in.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
In the News
Press Archives
Year - 2013
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Year - 2010
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
