#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=skoch_egov
Skoch Digital inclusion Award 2011
Category: E-Governance
Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) - Online Management, Monitoring and Accounting System (OMMAS)
Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme under Ministry of Rural Development, Govt. of India with the target of connecting, through good All-weather roads, every habitation that has a population of more than 1000.
Online Management, Monitoring and Accounting System (OMMAS) for Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) is a web based online system for monitoring of schemes related to PMGSY being implemented across the country.
OMMAS is intended to serve the requirement of decision-making authorities at various levels, monitors, DPIU’s, contractors, and citizens etc. The primary mode of operations for OMMAS is at National, State and District levels.
The OMMAS will facilitate the operational requirements of planning, scheduling, monitoring, tracking and execution in implementing the PMGSY scheme.
OMMAS comprises of Master Data, Rural Road Plan, Proposal, Tendering, Execution, Quality Monitoring, Receipts & Payments and Maintenance Module.
Master data creation is the compilation of static information, which is further used for planning and analysis.
It includes compilation of habitation data and data of existing categorized roads.
Rural Road Plan consists of the list of proposed roads for providing connectivity to unconnected habitations to already connected habitations or to the existing all-weather roads.
This module will help to prepare the road plan at block level which will then be compiled at district level as District Rural Road Plan (DRRP).
DRRP is then compiled at state and central levels.
Proposals are prepared annually and submitted for Project Clearance.
This module aids in the preparation of district level Annual Proposal, its compilation at State level and submission to MRD for Project Clearance.
Tendering module is used for publishing the tender notices on the web and maintaining information related to award of work to the selected contractor.
Execution module is used to track and analyze the physical and financial progress of works with respect to the approved schedule.
Quality Monitoring module enables the inspecting officials in entering their inspection reports on the quality of work
Receipts & Payments module handles the finance-related transactions that occur in the entire process of road construction, including the details of fund releases and utilization.
Maintenance module handles the modalities required for handing over the constructed roads to the local/state departments for future maintenance and upkeep.
Features of OMMAS:
Anytime, Anywhere availability of data related to PMGSY
Data Entry at origin to avoid duplicity of effort
Work Flow Enabled
Effective Decision Support Tool For official managing PMGSY
Provide up-to-date information about the programme, PMGSY to all the stakeholders.
Bring accountability, improved efficiency, and transparency in implementation.
Automation of all processes involved
Effective decision support tool for National Level & State Level Officials in managing the network of roads being constructed under PMGSY.
Benefits
For Citizens
Active participation of the actual beneficiaries of the programme is ensured through:
Up-to-date information about the programme
Information about projects cleared (including sanctioned length, cost etc.) for their Blocks/Districts/States
Information about progress of road works in their Blocks/Districts/States
Information about tenders and important items of news about the programme implementation from across the country
Facility for providing a single-point feedback about the programme with an assurance of timely action
Information about the quality of works being executed through the report of National level Quality Monitors
Photographs of actual road works
Information about the relative performance of various Blocks/Districts/States in the programme implementation
For Government Officials
Managing the enormous data that is generated at various stages of the programme
Single-point data entry eliminate repetitive and time-consuming tasks of data compilation and aggregation at various levels
Facility for on-line submission and clearance of proposals substantially reduce the inter-agency time delays
Availability of latest information facilitates the policy makers and executing officials in taking timely decisions
Activities requiring urgent attention are flashed to the concerned officials to facilitate them in taking timely preventive and corrective actions
OMMAS eventually facilitated in achieving:
Accuracy
Improved Efficiency
Accountability
Transparency
Standardization of accounting system across all the implementing agencies
header
