#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pe_iot_IoT_Research_LabKits
IoT Research Lab Kits
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Professional Electronics, VLSI and Embedded Systems
Internet of Things IOT
Brief Description
Internet of Things (IoT) provides IP connectivity to various Things apart from Desktops, Laptops and Mobile Devices.
The term "THINGS" means any physical parameter that could be sensed and connected to Internet.
For example, a device monitoring temperature and humidity at a certain location and relaying the data will become a “THING’” in IoT domain.
IoT is a connecting bridge between physical world and cyber world and Machine to Machine communication i.e. with automation as one subset.
IoT refers to uniquely identifiable objects and their virtual representations in an Internet like structure.
IoT is altogether a new environment in which current Internet will be smartly utilized by all new range of embedded connected things.
Sensors are the building blocks of IoT which can collect parameters and low power wireless embedded systems transmit information to gateway devices.
Gateway device will make the parameters available over internet so that parameters are globally accessible.
Till now there is no dedicated network stack defined for IoT, as it is a heterogeneous network of networks.
The most popular protocols used for realization of IoT are ZigBee and 6LoWPAN (IEEE 802.15.4), Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
Main uses and domain
Comprehensive Lab setup to enhance the skills of students, researchers and academicians.
The lab kit comes with various nodes supporting different protocols and Gateway.
It also comes with a lab manual to streamline the learning process on various communication technologies and networking topologies.
It also comes with Required Software and APIs to interface sensors to plug and play with nodes in implementing newer algorithms.
Features and Technical Specifications
WINGZ (Wireless IP Network Gateway for ZigBee)
ARM Cortex-A9 application, up to 1GHz
1GB/2GB DDR3 SDRAM, 4GB/8GB onboard eMMC flash memory
External Micro-SD card support (up to 32GB)
Onboard Gigabit Ethernet, USB 2.0 with OTG Support
Supports various Serial Communication protocols like SPI, I2C, UART, CAN
High Definition Video Output through HDMI Port and 7” LCD with capacitive touch panel
High quality Stereo audio codec with 3.5mm audio port for Audio In/Out
High Range IEEE802.15.4 (ZigBee/6LoWPAN) Transceiver (upto 22dBm Tx power)
WLAN (IEEE802.11b/g/n), Dual mode Bluetooth (BLE), 3G, GPS
Temperature & Relative Humidity Sensor, Digital Ambient Light Sensor and 3-Axis Digital Accelerometer
Linux, Android
Ubimote
Highly integrated IEEE 802.15.4 System on Chip with ARM Cortex M3 microcontroller with 32kB RAM, 512kB Flash
Modes of operation as Coordinator, Router and End device
Intelligent power system with rechargeable lithium polymer battery and solar energy harvesting
State of the Art Security Engines for RSA, SHA2, AES and Random number generator.
Expansion headers for connecting Ubi-Sense and External Sensors
High range variant for longer coverage area
Wi-Fi mote
High-performance ARM Cortex-M4 MCU with (IEEE802.11 b/g/n) with 256KB RAM.
External Serial Flash Boot loader
Supports Station, Access Point and Wi-Fi Direct modes.
8Mb Serial Flash memory
Hardware Crypto Engine for Advanced Fast Security including AES, DES and 3DES, SHA2 and MD5, CRC and Checksum
BLE mote
Highly integrated System on Chip with ARM Cortex M0 microcontroller with 32kB RAM, 256kB flash
8Mb serial Flash memory
AES Hardware Encryption Engine (AES Electronic Codebook Mode Encryption, AES CCM Mode Encryption), Accelerated Address Resolver and Random Number Generator
UbiSense
Digital data of physical parameters viz.
Temperature and Relative Humidity
Light Intensity
Barometric Pressure
Proximity sensing
Platform required (if any): NA
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Nagesh R, nageshr [at] cdac [dot] in
Aswath Rao, aswath [at] cdac [dot] in
Haribabu P, hari [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Professional Electronics VLSI & Embedded Systems
Agriculture and Environment Electronics
Strategic Electronics Systems
Smart Grid Security
Augmented Reality (AR)
Smart Card Technologies
High Speed Networking
Medical Electronics
Ubiquitous Computing
Power Electronics
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, June 30, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
