#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mc_st_pravachak
Pravachak Rajbhasha (Text - to - Speech)
Pravachak-Rajbhasha is a Hindi Text-to-Speech (TTS/Speech synthesis) system developed by Applied AI group, C-DAC, Pune with support of Department of Official Language (DOL), New Delhi.
It transforms Hindi text (UNICODE) into Hindi speech.
Pravachak-Rajbhasha has a facility of reading the selected Hindi (Unicode) text from a web page or a text/doc file.
Salient Features:
Pravachak-Rajbhasha is a UNICODE Compatible system
Available in three application mode: Web Narrator, e-Reader and e-Mail reader
Equipped to read content from the web, e-mails (Microsoft outlook 1997-2007) and standalone document
Intelligent system to identify the variation in spelling and pronunciation
Facility provided to change the play speed and volume
Support standalone documents like MS word files, Text files, html files
Facility of Virtual keyboard has been provided in Web Narrator, e-Reader and e-Mail reader for typing in Phonetic, Inscript and Remington
The Text-to-Speech engine, PRAVACHAK-RAJBHASHA, comprises the following three applications:
Web Narrator
The web narrator is equipped to narrate the content of a web page (in Devnagari script) selected by the user.
The user has the liberty of listening to the narration at the desired pace as he/ she can alter the pace of utterance using the Speed button.
E-Reader
Devnagari documents stored in a system can be narrated by using this tool.
E-Reader can narrate the following file formats - .txt file, .doc file, .docx file, .rtf file, .ppt file, .xls file or .xlsx file.
E-Reader provides the user with the liberty of making the system read-out an already existing file or user can type the desired text.
Email-Reader
This tool enables the user to make the system read-out the contents of e-mail in Devnagari script.
It can be used to narrate the e-mail messages of ‘Microsoft Outlook’.
On Screen Keyboard
Pravachak-Rajbhasha has a user friendly option for those who are not comfortable typing Hindi.
It has a select-and-type on-screen keyboard in all its applications.
There are three options:
Inscript Keyboard
Phonetic Keyboard
Remington Keyboard
Download Information of Pravachak-Rajbhasha
Pravachak-Rajbhasha can be downloaded from the URL:
Contact Us
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
header
pravachak
