#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_UAV
Training Program on UAV
One Week Online “Training Program on UAV”
(Sponsored by NMICPS TiHAN Foundation, IIT Hyderabad and Organized by C-DAC Mohali)
November 8 – 12, 2021
NMICPS Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation Foundation IIT Hyderabad and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Mohali organizes One Week Online “Training Program on UAV”.
The advancements in UAV technology and its applications in the Agriculture/Horticulture sector, surveillance, environment, geosurvey and mapping, disaster management, health sector, supply chain management, etc. are yielding promising outcomes.
Combining the strengths of the two institutes (C-DAC Mohali and NMICPS TiHAN Foundation - IIT Hyderabad) in the sector, the aim of the training programme is to sensitize the participants about technological aspects around the UAVs, at foundational level, application level and share some key advances through expert talks and case studies.
This will provide an opportunity to the participants, faculty of technical institutes to further upgrade their knowledge and skill in the new and advanced areas.
Schedule for the training programme:
Course Dates
November 8 – 12, 2021 (1 week/3 sessions per day)
Eligibility
The faculty members of the AICTE approved institutions, Scientists, Research Scholars, PG/UG Scholars, participants from Government, lndustry (Bureaucrats/ Technicians/Participants from lndustry etc.)/ staff of the host institutions.
Mode of Training
Online (3 sessions per day)
No. of Seats
Maximum 50 participants (on First come first serve basis).
Conduct of test and issuance of certificate
a) A test shall be conducted at the end of the program (final day).
b) The certificates shall be issued to those participants attended the program with minimum 80% of attendance and scored minimum 60% marks in the test.
Important dates:
Last Date for receiving application (by online): November 1, 2021
Intimation of Selection: November 2, 2021
Confirmation by Candidates: November 3, 2021
Training programme dates: November 8-12, 2021
Programme Content:
Programme Leaflet
How to apply:
Download the Registration Form  .
Upload duly filled-in Registration form while submitting the online form available at  https://forms.gle/uaswMEsUVpA9Q1xq8
General:
There are no charges for the Training as sponsored by NMICPS DST Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation Foundation, IIT Hyderabad.
The training programme is online five days, having 3 sessions per day.
Participants should have smart phone/laptop with good internet connectivity to attend the online programme.
*Note: The candidates are requested to check the eligibility criterion and fill the application form at the earliest because seats are limited.
The applications received shall be scrutinized as per eligibility of Participant/training guidelines.
The call letter for Training Programme shall be sent through e-mail.
The Norms, rules & regulations of NMICPS DST Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation Foundation IIT Hyderabad shall be followed for this Training Programme.
For Further Details/clarifications, Please Contact:
The Coordinator
C-DAC, A-34, Industrial Area, Phase-VIII, Mohali (Punjab) -160 071
Ph. No 0172 – 6619024,6619050, 2237052-55
Email: chetanm [at] cdac [dot] in
header
