#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_its_international
International Training under ITEC scheme of MEA
About Programme
Training Calendar
How to Apply
Photogallery
Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation programme popularly known as "ITEC" was launched in 1964 as a bilateral programme of assistance along with its corollary programme SCAAP, covers 156 countries in Asia, Africa, East Europe, Central & Latin America, Pacific and Small Island.
ITEC is about cooperation and partnership for mutual benefit.
It is response oriented and addresses the needs of developing countries.
CDAC, NOIDA ASSOCIATION WITH ITEC/SCAAP SCHEME
CDAC, Noida had been associated with ITEC/SCAAP scheme of Ministry of External Affairs since 2007 and till now has successfully conducted several programmes during each of the years under ITEC/SCAAP Scheme of MEA.
More than 1200 participants from over 100 countries have been trained on latest tools and technologies in niche areas of e-Governance, Open Source, Cyber Crime, e-Learning, GIS , LAN WAN Administration, Big Data, Programming Languages etc.
EDUCATION AT CDAC, NOIDA
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is a national initiative of the Govt. of India, Ministry of Communication & IT to mobilize human and technical resources in order to attain technological advancement in the ever-evolving arena of Information Technology for the benefit of masses .
C-DAC is a scientific society and one of the premier research institute of DeitY, MCIT and has successfully integrated its computer education and training activities in Hi-tech areas with Research & Development in the area of Information Technology like Embedded Systems, Broadband, Multilingual technologies, GIS based Solutions, Digital library, Health care, e-Governance etc. CDAC has also established collaboration alliance with global technology leaders like Microsoft, IBM, Compaq etc. It professes the policy of establishing the balance between research and teaching for higher education.
TRAINING METHODOLOGY
C-DAC adopts professional approach in imparting training to the participants wherein tentatively 50% time is devoted to lectures and same amount of time is devoted to labs to help participants to have a better understanding of concepts learnt in theory sessions.
State-of-the-art infrastructure, well equipped library, experienced and qualified faculties are few of the things that make learning at CDAC a memorable experience.
Besides classroom training, programmes such as expert sessions, visit to industries, cultural visits to historical monuments are conducted as a part of the training.
CERTIFICATE OF PARTICIPATION
On successful completion of the programme, all participants are awarded a participation certificate from CDAC at a ceremony.
ACCOMMODATION
Participants are comfortably accommodated on a single occupancy basis in a quality hotel in NCR.
Some of the Facilities provided in each room are:
Air conditioned rooms with attached bath
Television with Cable Connection
Locker / Safe
Study desk with Chair
Tea/ Coffee Maker
24 Hour Room Service
Newspaper
Refrigerator
Other common facilities include
Swimming pool
Fitness centre
Coffee shop
Doctor on Call
Power Backup
ALLOWANCES
The training programs conducted for international participants at C-DAC Noida are sponsored by the Govt. of India under the ITEC scheme.
The allowance admissible to the participants includes the cost of air passage, free tuition, living allowance and lodging as per availability of accommodation.
INR 1500/- per day would be provided as Living allowance.
However, students are advised to bring adequate money to meet the additional expenses on site seeing, shopping, long distance telephone calls, medical check up etc. Detailed information about these schemes and the allowances admissible can be obtained from the nearest Indian Diplomatic Mission or Embassy.
MUST DO'S
General
Participants should be in good health, sans any communicable diseases.
Each participant to bring at least five copies of recent passport size photographs.
Travel
Before leaving their countries, participants must obtain entry visa to India for the duration of the course they intend to attend.
This can be taken from the Indian Embassy in their countries.
Participants should obtain return air tickets from their Indian Embassy.
Participants who are provided air tickets by the Indian Embassy should adhere to their ticket schedule.
No re-routing/re-scheduling would be done by CDAC.
INFORMATION YOU CAN USE
At the Airport:At the New Delhi airport, a representative from CDAC will be there outside Gate 6 with a placard to receive the participants.
CDAC transport will bring the participants to the hotel.
In case of any problem, contact Mr. Navneet Jain  (Associate Director) at 0091-9811900728.
HOW TO REACH THE VENUE
CDAC, NOIDA is located at the doorstep of Delhi, the capital of India.
NOIDA is only 14 Kms.
away from Connaught Place and New Delhi Railway Station, both of which are in the heart of New Delhi.
Noida is well connected to Delhi through a network of roads, national highways and the ultra-modern DND flyover, offering inter-road linkages to different parts of North India.
NOIDA is one of the largest planned industrial townships of Asia, and it symbolizes harmony between human habitat and Industrial Enterprise in India.
NOIDA is an important part of the Industrial landscape of the nation.
It is part of the National Capital Region (NCR) and is spread over 20,316 hectares, with most sectors fully developed.
NOIDA offers a pollution free high standard of living and a highly supportive industrial environment with its unique infrastructure providing numerous, matchless facilities.
As, Noida is near to the capital of India, it is also an attraction for the tourists.
Delhi is a palimpsest, bearing the complexities, the contradictions, the beauty and the dynamism of a city where the past coexists with the present.
Many dynasties ruled from here and the city is rich in the architecture of its monuments.
Diverse cultural elements absorbed into the daily life of the city have enriched its character.
Exploring the city can be a fascinating and rewarding experience.
Delhi is just not a city but it is a book - a book which narrates the history of India.
GETTING TO CDAC, NOIDA
Noida is well connected to different cities and has Interstate Bus Terminal at Sector-34, Noida As far as Rail transport is concerned there is no Railway Station in Noida but the nearest railway station are Nizamuddin, New Delhi, Old Delhi Railway Station, Shahadra in Delhi and Ghaziabad Railway Station in Ghaziabad .The Nearest Airport is Indira Gandhi International Airport , Delhi.
The distance from Noida to various places are as follows -
New Delhi Railway Station 25 Kms.
Indira Gandhi International Airport 35 Kms.
For Further Details Please Contact:
SOIT (International Training)
Academic Block , B-30, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Mobile :+919811900728
Ph. No:+91-120-3063396
email: navneetjain [at] cdac [dot] in
header
