#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot862
C-DAC :An interaction-programme on IASF held
An interaction-programme on IASF held
The People's Chronicle
March 08, 2013
An interaction programme on Intelligent Advisory System for Farmers (IASF) on present scenario of Manipur, which tells how the farmers should get knowledge on seasonal plant diseases through internet and mobile phones, was held on Monday.
The programme, which was held along with a discussion session with experts, was held at the auditorium of Library and Information Centre, Kakching.
The programme was organised by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Mumbai (C-DAC-Mumbai) in association with the Department of Agriculutre, Manipur government, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Thoubal, Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) Thoubal and Ethi Committee, Kakching.
The opening session was attended by Y Thambou Singh, ex-MLA as the chief guest; Pukhrambam Sampha Singh, president of Library and Information Centre, Kakching as the president and Naorem Gandhar Singh as the guest of honour.
Giving the key-note address, Ranjan Yengkhom, chief investigator of IASF Project and Senior Scientist of C-DAC Mumbai, vividly described the role of IASF in Manipur’s Agriculture.
He said that those farmers who have registered to IASF in their mobile phones or through internet can get any information regarding plant diseases at anytime and very easily.
Moreover, IASF will also inform the farmers about the climatic conditions and epidemics etc also.
Dr M Thoithoi Singh, programme co-ordinator of KVK Thoubal spoke on ‘Present Disease Scenario in Thoubal District’, S Surmangol of SMS Agronomy, KVK Thoubal demonstrated on the selection of rice seeds, L Sanatomba Singh on ‘Soil Health Management’ and Kh Nimaichand Singh on ‘Inputs in IASF and its operation’.
The experts also responded to queries thrown in by the farmers.
The programme was participated by around 150 participants from various parts of Thoubal district.
Moreover, several medicines were also districuted as a part of the function.
The function also felicitated Nongmaithem Ibomcha Singh, who has recently won the Krishi Karman Award from the Department of Agriculture and CO-operation under Agriculture Ministry of the Government of India, he received the award for producing 10, 238 kilograms of paddy per hectare in 2011-12.
header
