#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot1091
Captured in 2 petabytes, 23,000 hours of beloved music, dance and cultural pieces
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
The Indian Express
December 13, 2017
In addition to the digital repository, there is a ‘back-up’ as well, as all the audiovisual content has been saved on tapes.
A first-of-its-kind digital repository, which is a treasure trove of 23,000 hours of rare cultural pieces — encompassing music, dance, drama and cinema — has recently been awarded an ISO certification.
The pilot project, called National Cultural Audiovisual Archive (NCAA), is a joint effort between the city-based Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) and the Indira Gandhi National Culture for Arts (IGNCA).
‘Digitalay’, a tool conceived and developed by C-DAC, was used to develop the digital repository that today includes over 9,600 audiovisual files.
The invaluable pieces of music, dance and more were contributed by as many as 21 national institutions, including Kalakshetra Foundation, National Archives of India, Natya Shodh Sanstha, Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalay, Kerala Kalamandalam, Regional Resources Centre for Folk Performing Arts, Sahitya Akademi, Sangeet Natak Akademi and Shri Kashi Sangeet Samaj.
By March 2018, the team aims to finish compiling and digitising 30,000 hours of cultural events.
“As technology and software are being upgraded at such a rapid pace, many digital files and documents will become obsolete soon, if not appropriately archived digitally, ” said Dinesh Katre, associate director of human-centred design and computing at C-DAC, Pune.
The task before the team -sourcing, reading and digitising vast amounts of audiovisual content — was not an easy one, said project director from IGNCA, Pratapanand Jha.
“Sourcing some of the rare audiovisual content, like the music compositions provided by Kashi Sangeet Samaj or interviews of key writers, has been extremely difficult, given that they are almost a 100 years old… content with no copyright restrictions was carefully sourced, ” said Jha.
As they were flooded with art forms from all parts of the country, the archival team had to synchronise the content in a manner that any keyword, in any language, could be easily skimmed and recognised by the software.
The team, which started working on the project in 2014, today has over 2 petabytes of audiovisual content, covering over 1,000 artistes and hundreds of Indian languages and dialects.
A majority of the content was contributed by the Bhopal-based Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalay, said Jha.
“These tapes have been preserved at two seismically different zones, one at Delhi and another at Bengaluru, to ensure that they are permanently preserved, ” said Jha.
In the next phase, the project aims to digitise content upto 5 lakh hours, within the next five years.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, May 08, 2019
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
