#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot1248
MoS IT Sanjay Dhotre inaugurates 34th Foundation Day of C-DAC
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
Emerging Technologies News
April 13, 2021
MoS IT Sanjay Dhotre inaugurates 34th Foundation Day of C-DAC – India Education| Global Education |Education News
Mumbai: Sanjay Dhotre, Union Minister of State for Education, Electronics & Information Technology and Communications, inaugurated 34th Foundation Day of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), the premier R&D group of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) via digital medium.
Several different dignitaries together with Padma Vibhushan Dr. Raghunath Anant Mashelkar, Ex-Director General, CSIR; Padma Bhushan Dr. Vijay.
P. Bhatkar, Chancellor of Nalanda University; Padma Bhushan Dr. V.Ok.
Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog and Chancellor JNU; Dr Rajendra Kumar, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & IT; Dr. Hemant Darbari, Director General, C-DAC and Col. A.Ok Nath, ED, CDAC additionally joined the occasion just about.On the event of 34th basis day, three novel modern applied sciences – Cyber Security Operation Centre (CSoC) as a service and C-DAC’s indigenous High-Performance Computing software program solutions- Parallel Development Environment (ParaDE) and Automatic Parallelizing Compiler (CAPC) have been launched by C-DAC.
As a part of basis day, CDAC devoted a newly arrange 6000 sq.ft Cyber Security Operation Centre (CSOC) to the nation providing finish to finish safety options together with managed safety companies.
ParaDE is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for creating parallel functions on HPC platforms.
CAPC is an modern software program which offers a quick and efficient resolution for code parallelization by mechanically changing a sequential C code to a corresponding parallel code appropriate for the goal parallel {hardware}.
Another App primarily based system known as MANAS, Mental well being And Normalcy Augmentation System can be being earmarked individually by the Principal Scientific Advisor to Govt. of India.
MANAS is a complete, scalable, nationwide digital wellbeing platform to reinforce psychological well-being of Indian residents and aimed to ‘reach the unreached’ via Digital India initiatives.
While talking on the occasion Shri Sanjay Dhotre stated that the function of analysis organizations like C-DAC is important for realization of imaginative and prescient of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan or Self-reliant India marketing campaign of Govt. of India which goals to make the nation and its residents impartial and self-reliant in all senses.
He lauded C-DAC for its contribution underneath National Supercomputing Mission (NSM) enabling manufacturing of methods and elements for High Performance Computing in India.
This shall give massive impetus in the direction of growth of elements prematurely know-how areas throughout the nation by MSMEs.
Shri Dhotre additionally highlighted the C-DAC’s function in Meity’s National Policy on Electronics 2019 (NPE 2019) envisions positioning India as a worldwide hub for Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) by encouraging and driving capabilities within the nation for growing core elements, together with chipsets and creating an enabling setting for the business to compete globally.
He talked about, “I can see that C-DAC is progressing in this direction very well by developing a portfolio of 32/64 bit processors named VEGA as a part of its Microprocessor initiative and offering the same for the Swadeshi Microprocessor Challenge by MeitY.”
The Minister additional added that CDAC on one hand is deeply engaged in core analysis in High Performance Computing, Artificial Intelligence, 5G, Blockchain, Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality, Cyber Security, Indian language computing, and many others.
whereas alternatively, it has efficiently reworked the lab final result to profit the grassroots creating societal impression.
Representative such nationwide stage rollout embrace Emergency Response Support System for aged, ladies and other people in misery, e-Sanjeevani telemedicine, National Common Mobility Card for ease of transportation, and many others.
While concluding his deal with the Minister remarked that on its 34th Foundation Day celebrations, C-DAC ought to now goal for reaching ever larger targets and by making a mark as globally famend analysis lab.
This would wish a collaborative and synergetic strategy with academia, R&D, startups and business.
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Friday, April 16, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
