#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot1214
National Virtual Library of India: C-DAC spearheads massive virtual library project
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
The Indian Express
March 5, 2018
“The idea was to have a massive online library, where resources from across fields available in all possible forms, could be collated and made available on a single platform, ” said Dinesh Katre, senior director and head at C-DAC’s Human-Centred Design and Computing Group
This is the quantum of multi-lingual ‘knowledge resources’ to be made available in the form of documents, books, images, audio, videos and other forms in the coming months.
Spearheaded by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), headquartered in Pune, the massive the National Virtual Library of India (NVLI) will be an online platform covering tens and hundreds of fields, ranging from arts, music, dance, culture, theatre, science and technology to education, archaeology, literature, museums, cartography maps, e-papers and manuscripts, among others.
This programme is a part of the National Mission on Libraries initiated by the National Knowledge Commission under the Ministry of Culture.
A limited-version launch of the NVLI portal by Shravan Kumar, joint secretary in the ministry, was recently held in Mumbai.
“The idea was to have a massive online library, where resources from across fields available in all possible forms, could be collated and made available on a single platform, ” Dinesh Katre, senior director and head at C-DAC’s Human-Centred Design and Computing Group, told The Indian Express.
This would largely benefit researchers, students and subject experts, among others, who would no longer need to hunt or spend hours for reference material in traditional library buildings.
Moreover, these contents will be preserved permanently for future requirements too, he added.
Once formally launched, this could be one of the world’s largest virtual libraries where information on such diverse subjects are available.
Currently, Australia operates a similar facility named Treasure Trove.
The biggest advantage for India is the federal government system, where data gathering from government-run institutions is easier.
“We are also open to contributions from private parties, but for that MoUs will be signed, ” he said.
While C-DAC is working on developing softwares to accommodate such multi-lingual data, a portal will be open for common users in the coming months.
Other partnering institutions for this project include IIT-Mumbai, Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), Raja Ram Mohan Roy Library Foundation, Kolkata, and Kalyani University, West Bengal.
“We have nearly 40 institutions which will share their data in whatever available formats.
It will be reviewed by a team of experts before it is classified into categories.
Once launched, the platform will be freely accessible for editing or contributions from outsiders or subject experts, making it more user-friendly, ” added Katre.
C-DAC has been conducting training workshops and seminars at these 40 institutes so that there is a standard format for documenting the varied contents, presently measuring a few terabytes.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, March 07, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
IE
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
