#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=DAC&courseid=86
e-Brochure
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
ACTS Menu
Courses
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
PG-DAI : PG-Diploma in Artificial Intelligence
PG-DASSD : PG-Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development
PG-DRAT : Post Graduate Diploma in Robotics & Allied Technologies
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
Testimonials
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
Online Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts (e-DACA)
NSQF level: 7
Course Focus
Course Highlights
Eligibility Criteria
Course Contents
Admission Process
Training Centres
Course Fees
The advent of multimedia has had a profound impact on the various media services such as advertising, digital marketing, Web site development etc. In the present scenario, commercial artists who are familiar with computing technology have a wide range of opportunities in these market segments.
Computer Artists can offer consultancy services to textile industry, fashion designers, the publishing industry, education and training industry, tourism development, industrial design.
They can also provide visualization support to film-makers.
The internet and its diverse applications encompassing every field and aspect of life have created numerous opportunities for Web Page Designers.
Besides Software Development Organizations, the Computer Animation Industry is in great need of Computer Artists.
The unique Diploma in Advanced Computer Arts is undoubtedly a boon to the requirement of all these industries.
e-DACA is 600 hours of practical oriented learning, delivered virtually on online platform.
e-DACA course syllabus is designed to meet the multimedia and ICT industry requirements.
Creative and expert faculties working in the multimedia domain delivering the sessions.
Projects and Case studies conducted in multimedia and animation as part of student portfolio development.
Placement assistance is provided to the successful candidates.
10+2, MFA, BFA, B.Arch, GD Arts, Engineering, Science, Arts and Commerce stream or other equivalent degree or diploma holders in the field of Advertising, Commercial Arts, Painting, Sculpture, Textile, Fashion Designing, Interior Decoration  OR
Students from other academic backgrounds having the artistic inclination and creative abilities are also encouraged to do this course.
But they must qualify through the Entrance Test.
Applicants need to have basic knowledge of using computers.
Introduction to Computer Fundamentals
30 Hours
Introduction to Computers, Power point presentation.
Digital Image-editing and effects (Graphic Design)
150 Hours
Photoshop: Conventional & Computer Art and Image Editing Techniques, Introduction to Photoshop interface, Concept of Layers, Tools selection types, Image Collage Techniques, Concept of Masking (Types of Masking), Introduction to Scanner, Digital and Painting (Brush, digital Tablet), Retouching Images (Clone Stamp, Healing brush, Patch Tool), Pixel Art and Gift, Adjustment layer, Typography.
Illustrator: Bitmap vs vector, Viewing/opening documents, Title bar info, New document specifications, RGB v CMYK, Navigation, Rulers, Guides and grids, Tool Panel: Tool bar, rawing simple shapes, Pen tool, Selections, Transforming shapes: Transforming shapes, Duplicating shapes & transformations, Type Tools: Selecting and creating type, Font usage, formatting, Type wrapping around objects, Converting to outlines, Object Relations: Basic fill, Basic strokes, Positioning, Alignment, Transparency, Saving and Exporting: Saving for various software imports, Bitmap vs vector export.
UX process & Architecture
80 Hours
Interviews: What is a User Interview?, How to conduct interviews as per Context, Collect data from different people as per context, https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/how-to-conduct-user-interviews, Observation: Interpretation of data which are collect in user interviews, Set focus and goals, https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/contextual-interviews-and-how-to-handle-them, Conceptual Model, User Model, Personas, Uses of personas in UX, https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/personas-why-and-how-you-should-use-them
Scenarios, Scenarios describe the stories and context behind why a specific user or user group comes to your site, https://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/scenarios.html
Wireframe, Prototype, Visual design, User testing.
UI Design & Web Development (Website Designing & Development)
120 Hours
Basic HTML coding with Note Pad, Introduction to Dreamweaver user interface, Dreamweaver insert menu, Cascading style sheet, CSS3 properties, Dreamweaver spry Menu, Responsive, Javascript, jQuery, What is CMS?, What is prototypes?, Hybrid Development (Mobile + Web + Tablet), Design Thinking, AI, Chatbots, etc.
Overview - How Digital Marketing works
80 Hours
Digital Media (Content), Motion Graphic, Online Advertisement – (Flash, Adobe Edge, and Google Web Designer), Email Marketing – (Photoshop, HTML, CSS), Landing Pages – (Photoshop, HTML, CSS, Responsive, JS), Overview - How Digital Marketing works: Social Media, Content, Influencers, Remarketing.
Students Portfolio
100 Hours
How to Apply for e-DACA course?
Candidate has to register and apply online on the C-DAC website for appearing in the Common Entrance Test and qualify to get admission to C-DAC Online Diploma in Advanced Computer Arts (e-DACA) course.
Website details : www.cdac.in; acts.cdac.in
Selection Process
Common Entrance Test (CET) based on questions, which will test the visualization abilities, artistic skills and knowledge relating to communication media.
Syllabus of CET :
1.
Exam for e-DACA will try to test the visualization abilities, artistic skills & knowledge relating to communication media.
2.
Following type of questions will be included in the paper:
i.
Visualization of story board (Series of pictures depicting a story)
ii.
Designing icons for communicating different concepts
iii.
Visualization of objects from different view points and
iv.
Descriptive questions (such as description of an event)
No special preparation is required for appearing for the CET.
The students may use pencils, pens and dry colour (Colour pencils or crayons only).
It is not mandatory to use colours.
Schedule :
Sr. No.
Event
Dates
Start Date of Online Registration and Application forms
31 May, 2021
Last Date of Online Registration, Application and Payment of CET fee of INR 600/-
15 June, 2021
14 July, 2021
Admit Card Generation & download
17 June 2021
15 July 2021
Common Entrance Test (CET 1 & 2)
19 June, 2021
17 July, 2021
Announcement of CET Result
26 June, 2021
21 July, 2021
Payment of first installment of course fees of INR 10,000/- plus GST @ 18% as per Govt. of India (GOI).
Payment of second installment of course fees of INR 60,000/- plus GST@ 18% as per GOI.
06 July, 2021
21 Aug, 2021
09 Aug, 2021
Commencement of e-DACA course
23 Aug, 2021
Mumbai Educational Trust - Institute of Information Technology
Address
Bandra Reclamation, Gen. Arun Kumar Vaidya Chowk, Bandra (W), Mumbai
Maharashtra 400050
Telephone
Contact Person
Mr. Nilesh Shirke
Fax
022 – 26440093
e-Mail
metiit [at] met [dot] edu
PG-DAC, PreDAC, DACA, e-DAC, e-DACA
The total course fee is Rs. 70,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax as applicable currently @ 18% by Government of India.
The course fee has to be paid in two installments as per the schedule.
The first installment is Rs. 10,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax as applicable currently @ 18% as per Government of India.
The second installment is Rs. 60,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax as applicable currently @ 18% as per Government of India.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Friday, July 09, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
banner
New Arrow
Logo
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
