#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_pr_prs_rl209
Indian Scientist from C-DAC Bags Rare Global Honour
Pune
December 01, 2012
Dr. Pradeep Sinha, Senior Director, High Performance Computing (HPC), C-DAC, has been bestowed the recognition of IEEE Fellow by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), New Jersey, USA, this year.
IEEE Fellow is recognised by the technical and scientific community as a prestigious honour and an important career achievement.
IEEE Fellow is conferred by the IEEE Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of interest ranging from aerospace systems, computers and telecommunications to biomedical engineering, electric power and consumer electronics.
Dr. Sinha has been recognised for this prestigious award for his "Leadership in Distributed and Parallel Processing Systems".
This distinction is the result of his sustained efforts of more than two decades in the area of High Performance Computing (HPC) & Distributed Systems.
Addressing the media, Dr. Sinha said, "I feel proud of having received this honour on behalf of C-DAC and the country.
It proves that our country's research laboratories are carrying out state-of-the-art research in their respective domains that matches with the best of international standards.
This is a highly motivating factor for our younger generation to be in India for pursuing their R&D careers.
It is indeed a proud feeling to be a part of this elite scientific fraternity and having won this accolade for the Nation".
The IEEE is the world's leading professional organization for advancing technology for humanity.
Dedicated to the advancement of technology the IEEE publishes 30 percent of the world's literature in the electrical and electronics engineering and computer science fields and has developed more than 900 active standards.
The organization also sponsors or co-sponsors nearly 400 international technical conferences each year.
Dr. Sinha was earlier awarded the prestigious "ACM Distinguished Engineer" designation by Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), USA in the year 2009 in recognition of his significant accomplishments in, and impact on, the computing field.
This was widely covered by several newspapers in their November 14, 2009 issue.
With his recognition as IEEE Fellow, Dr. Sinha is one of the rare individuals who have achieved both the awards in the country.
Ever since Dr. Sinha joined C-DAC in 1996, he has successfully led various teams involved in the design and development of PARAM series of supercomputers.
He is currently leading the HPC initiatives of C-DAC to drive multiple activities of the national HPC ecosystem, including HPC applications development, HPC systems and infrastructure architecture, development of HPC software tools and programming environment, HPC manpower development, and R&D for Exascale Computing technologies.
With his firm belief that cost-effective healthcare services can be enabled for large masses by using distributed and parallel processing technologies, Dr. Sinha is leading an international group of scientists and researchers for developing IT solutions and infrastructure for better healthcare services.
This includes telemedicine systems, healthcare grid infrastructure, Software Development Kits (SDKs) for healthcare standards, and a distributed, scalable and reliable healthcare information storage system.
A unique feature of Dr. Sinha is his knack for converting his research work and knowledge into highly successful authored books.
With this skill, he has authored six books, two of which are from IEEE PRESS (meeting the highest publication standard for technical books).
One of these is in HPC area and the other one is in Health Informatics field.
The one in HPC area even has Japanese language edition due to its world-wide popularity.
Dr. Sinha's contributions mentioned above have helped scientists, researchers, doctors, patients, students and educators.
For more details, please contact: digvijayg@cdac.in
header
