#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_corp_gist_ism_launch
ISM
Intelligent Script Manager
ISM from C-DAC GIST is the acronym for Intelligent Script Manager.
ISM Basic is latest addition to the popular family of ISM products from GIST Research Labs.
Using ISM Basic is the easiest way to get started with Indian languages on your personal computer.
This software consists of aesthetic Indian language fonts and tools that you require to start working with Indian Languages on computers.
ISM Basic has been developed to work with all Official Indian languages.
With the help of this tool users can type very easily official Indian languages which also includes Perso-arabic languages like Urdu, Sindhi, Kashmiri.
ISM Basic supports UNICODE and Enhanced INSCRIPT keyboard layout.
One can select any languages to start typing in that particular language on any editor on all available windows platforms (32 bit and 64 bit both.
Pluggable architecture of ISM Basic ensures easy integration, upgrade and auto-update of various useful Indian language services and tools.
Salient Features
Enables typing with Indian languages viz. Assamese, Bangla, Boro, Dogri, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri (Devanagari Script), Kashmiri (Perso Arabic Script), Konkani, Malayalam, Manipuri (Bengali Script), Manipuri (Meetei-Mayek Script), Marathi, Maithili, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Santali (Devanagari Script), Santali (OL-CHIKI Script), Sanskrit, Sindhi (Devanagari Script), Sindhi (Perso Arabic), Tamil, Telugu, Urdu.
Supports UNICODE data and Open Type (OT) Fonts.
Enables creation of Indian language content using Windows based applications.
Can be used for typing in web-browser to support applications such as e-mailing, chatting, searching, etc.
Allows typing of new UNICODE value of Rupee Symbol
On screen floating keyboard to help novice users in content creation and learning the keyboard.
Easy Phonetic typing support for users comfortable with the English keyboard.
Support for popular script specific keyboards layouts like Typewriter.
C-DAC GIST Data Converter  is integrated with ISM Basic for Conversion of Data from third party fonts (legacy data) to standard Unicode format.
It also enables user to transliterate text from English to Indian Languages and vice versa.
It supports following file formats as input: - Text files (*.txt), Excel (*.xls and *.xlsx), Word (*.doc and *.docx), PowerPoint (*.ppt and *.pptx), CSV (*.csv), HTML (*.htm and *.html).
Other than files, the tool also supports conversion of data in various databases like MS SQL, MySql and Oracle.
Download ISM Basic (32 Bit)
Download ISM Basic (64 Bit)
header
Product_ISM
