#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mc_st_shruti_drishti
Shruti Drishti
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Speech Technology
"Shruti Drishti" is an Integrated Text-to-Speech [TTS] & Text-to-Braille [TTB] System for the Visually Impaired using the Information Extraction and Retrieval techniques.
Shruti Drishti is a web page browser developed for visually impaired users is considered to provide user-friendly environment, sharing and strengthening of global knowledge by removing barriers and providing equitable access to information through speech and Braille assistive technologies.
The system enables visually impaired to browse internet using minimum key combinations.
Shruti Drishti has an option of presenting the displayed information in a speech mode using a speech synthesizer or in the Braille format.
The speech mode of information representation provides descriptive information available on web page, including links, text etc. It is keyboard event driven and provides 'keyboard only' accessibility using a minimal set of keys.
It also provides a large text window for partially sighted users and a standard web page browser to enable users to work together with sighted workers.
Shruti Drishti is a combination of Text to Speech [TTS] & Text to Braille [TTB] application - to provide high-value integrated Web Browsing through listening anytime, anyplace.
Salient Features:
This software is least expensive, provides advantage over the other available systems.
Browse and access a document from a Conference Web-site through listening or reading with the help of Tactile Reader.
User can browse the web sites with the help of single key input /minimum Key combinations and provide very user friendly interface keeping in view for visually impaired.
Extracts the contents from the normal web page as well as the word documents.
Facility to Bookmark any web page
Facility to increase & decrease the Volume and speed with single key.
Facility to take Braille print through standard Braille Embosser.
Partially blind user can view text in bold font with yellow background with the facility to increase or decrease the font size on single key.
Visually Impaired Women Empowerment through "Shruti Drishti"
Awards
The system has received Golden Icon Award in the 'Trail Blazing application of the year New Entrant Category' at the 8th National Conference on eGovernance [2004] from the Department of Administrators Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Govt. of India & the Government of Orissa.
Award for brochure in the Technical Art Competition from Society for Technical Communication (STC)
Events
INDO-ASEAN SEMINAR
Indo-ASEAN seminar Held on January 18-19, 2007, which was organized by C-DAC and ASEAN Secretariat.
The Indo-ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) Seminar aimed at providing a platform for the Indian and the ASEAN community to explore the feasibility and usability of the Shruti Drishti software for their respective organizations / countries.
The event served as a forum for experts from India and ASEAN to exchange experiences and ideas on assistive technologies.
Visually Impaired Women Empowerment through "Shruti Drishti" »
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Standardization
Localisation
Machine Aided Translation
OCR and OHWR
Indian Language on Embedded Devices
Indian Language Fonts
Indian Language for Media
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Thursday, September 07, 2017
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
shruti drushti
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
