#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_dms_noida_130318_aushadhi
E-AUSHADHI
Brief Description
e-Aushadhi is a web based Supply Chain Management System that deals in Purchase, Supply, Distribution and Inventory Management of various drugs, sutures, surgical and consumable items by linking various Regional/ District Drug warehouses (DWH), District Hospitals (DH), their sub stores like Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC) and Sub Centres.
The system also has the functionality for distribution of drugs to patients, thus enabling tracking of consumption till last mile.
To consolidate the drugs and vaccine supply chain data of State instances of FDSI across each State, e-Aushadhi Central Dashboard was conceptualised .
The centralized dashboard fetch data from e-Aushadhi database of different States and consolidates this data for defined parameters to present a unified view for effective decision making.
Main uses and domain
Domain: HEALTH INFORMATICS
Main Users: State level health institutions responsible for management of drug and vaccine distribution to its citizens.
Features and Technical Specifications
Salient Features
Role Based Access
Supplier Interface for viewing PO, entering Challan
Lab Interface for entering the QC Reports
Stock Ledger, Drill Down Reports
Customizable Alert Management
Customizable Reports
Comprehensive Help
Categorization of Drugs as per CIMS guidelines
Provision to maintain expiry date/ shelf life of items
Ability to generate Indents automatically based on reorder, minimum and maximum planning
Ability to define and maintain various levels of stores.
This allows maintenance and upkeep of transaction history
The system architecture is based on three-tier architecture with the following details of each layer:
Tier-I: Database Server
Tier-II: Middle Tier Servers based on Application Server that facilitates seamless integration of business logic in multiple layering architecture including presentation layer, business layer and data layer using J2EE technologies like Java Servlets, Web Services etc.
Tier-III: Client interface so designed shall be user-friendly GUI based system developed using Java Applets and Java Beans.
The system has capabilities accessing data through Intranet or Internet through a standard Browser Application (Mozilla Firefox) to make it a truly web enabled solution.
The solution architecture is designed to operate between two sites – viz. - Data centre at C-DAC and Intranet of systems set up in the beneficiary healthcare institutions.
Platform required (if any)
Architecture : J2EE based N-Tier
Front End : JDK, JSP
Framework : Struts 1.2
Deployment : Linux
App Server : JBoss
Database : PostgreSQL Enterprise DB
Read more
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Rajiv Yadav
Associate Director
Phone No.:0120-3063325
Fax: 0120-2063317
Mobile: 9811775334
Email: rajivyadav [at] cdac [dot] in
Click to close
header
