#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=cs_nsNetwork_Security_GYN_Chakra_PS
Network Security GYN and Chakra Products and Services
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
High-speed network proliferation coupled with evolving dynamic nature of network environments opens up challenges specifically with respect to Network Security.
Globally networks face serious threats due the sophistication of attacks and malicious behaviours.
Aspects such as high-speed connectivity and dynamic configuration of nodes, wider ranges of services, on-the-fly entries and exits of mobile nodes, virtualization and changes to operating systems and applications pose security related challenges.
CDAC is involved in addressing research challenges in the field of Network and System Security.
Based on the support from the Government of India, CDAC team is focussing on the following specific areas:
Intrusion Detection, Analysis, Response and Prevention
Next Generation Firewall and Self Managed Networks
PKI and Authentication Protocols
Grid and Cloud Security
Insider Attack Detection
1. GYN (Guard Your Network) Intrusion Detection /Prevention System:
GYN is a Network Intrusion Detection / Prevention Appliance developed by C-DAC.
GYN shall work in bridge mode (in-line) for providing protection.
It analyzes the packets to take preventive measures after validating the critical attacks by carrying out multi-method detection using SNORT compatible signatures and anomaly detection mechanism.
GYN Analyzer capabilities include analysis of packets and network flow records with user friendly web-based Management facility.
Internal Architecture of GYN includes Signature based protection and flow based anomaly detection.
It also provides comprehensive threat analysis.
Key features :
Signature based attack Detection and prevention
DoS/DDoS Detection
Flood Detection
Reconnaissance Detection
Real-time Traffic Monitoring
Traffic Anomaly Detection
Flow Based Analysis
Comprehensive Threat Analysis
Alert and Attack Analysis
2. CHAKRA- Dynamic Firewall.
Chakra is a powerful, flexible and feature rich network based dynamic firewall solution.
Apart from having regular firewall features like traffic filtering, Chakra also provides unique functionalities like dynamic rule generation through network traffic monitoring, analysis and alert correlation.
Chakra collects, analyze and correlate the outputs from multiple network monitoring sources like SNMP, network flow and IDS to generate dynamic firewall rules.
Chakra can generate and configure firewall rules automatically for attack which change the traffic pattern of network such as DoS, DDoS, flood etc. It is capable to generate flexible reports related to traffic trend, security events and alerts.
Chakra provides the flexibility and control over firewall for monitoring, configuration and management in critical attack scenarios through an interactive web based interface.
Dynamic Rule Generation
Traffic Trend Analysis
SNMP and Flow analyzer
Multi source input analysis & correlation
DoS and DDoS detection
Anomaly detection
Role based Authentication
Flexible Report Generation
System and Event log
System resource Monitoring
Web based GUI
• Vulnerability assessment and Penetration testing
CDAC has trained professionals who have expertise in carrying out security assessment of networks, systems and applications.
• Advanced Network Security Training
CDAC conducts advanced network security program for corporate, academia and government agencies.
The course being offered is oriented for working professionals who would be able to implement/develop related solutions for their organization after the program.
Intended Audience
Network and System Administrators
Information Security Management Consultants and Auditors
Data Centre Administrators
Network and Information security professionals
Contact:
Centre For Development of Advanced Computing
No.68, Electronics City
Bengaluru-560100
Tel:+91 80 28523300
Fax:+91 80 28522590
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Biometrics
End Point Security
Mobile and Web Security
SCADA Security
Honeynet Technolgies
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, June 30, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
