#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_hypack_tbb_non_numerical_pragmas
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Intel Threading Building Blocks (TBB)
contents
Intel TBB overview
1. TBB programs to illustrate basic TBB API library calls :
2. Programs based on Numerical Computations (Matrix, Vector Computations) using TBB APIs :
3. Non-Numerical Computations & I/O (Producer-Consumer) using TBB APIs :
Example 3.1   Write a TBB program to explain the producer-consumer problem with standered queue .
Example 3.2   Write a TBB program to explain the producer-consumer work queue problem with
Example 3.3   Write a TBB program to explain the producer-consumer problem with concurrent queue .
Example 3.4   Write a TBB program to explain the producer-consumer work queue problem with concurrent
Description of TBB Programs
Example 3.1  producer-consumer problem with standered queue using TBB
( Download source code :   producer_consumer_v1.0.zip   )
Objective
To explain the producer-consumer problem with standered queue using TBB.
The producer-consumer problem illustrates the need for synchronization in systems where many processes share a resource.
In the problem, two processes share a fixed-size buffer.
One process produces item and puts it in the buffer, while the other process consumes item from the buffer.
Here, the output of one task, the producer, becomes the input to another, the consumer.
In this, the most important issue is how the data flow between different tasks requires serious attention from performance point of view.
The producer/consumer problem occurs in several typical scenarios.
In one scenario, the producer tries to put an item into a full buffer?
In this situation, producer threads are idling while waiting for consumer threads.
In another scenario, the consumer tries to take an item from an empty buffer?
In this situation, consumer threads are idling while waiting for producer threads.
In order to synchronize these processes, producer has to be blocked, when the buffer is full, and the consumer has to be blocked, when the buffer is empty.
This program makes use of mutex-locks for establishing a producer-consumer relationship between threads.
Input
Number of Items, Number of Producers, Number of Consumers.
Output
Sequence of Producer and Consumer Items
Example 3.2  producer-consumer work queue problem with standered queue using TBB
( Download source code :   producer_consumer_v1.1.zip   )
To explain the producer-consumer work queue problem with standered queue using TBB
The producer-consumer work queue problem illustrates the need for synchronization in systems where many processes share a resource.
The producer/consumer work queue problem occurs in several typical scenarios.
In one scenario, the producer creates tasks and inserts them into a work-queue.
The consumer threads pick up tasks from the task queue and execute them.
This concept can be called as producer-consumer work queues paradigm.
Simple instances of this paradigm in which the task queue can hold only one task, which may be short or long but is typically have bounded size.
In this simple model, the producer thread can estimate the time taken for consumer work and insert the new work in a shared buffer.
In producer-consumer work queue paradigm, the complex model application such as multi-media processing, the different possibilities exist on access to shared buffer.
Several possibilities exist in which the producer thread must not overwrite the shared buffer when the previous task has not been picked by a consumer thread.
Also, the consumer threads must not pick up tasks until there is something present in the shared data structure and individual consumer threads pick up tasks one at a time.
Producer-consumer problem is classic synchronization problem.
In this example, the task is matrix-matrix multiplication.
Here, producer acts as Input Generator for matrix-matrix multiplication.
i.e. It will allocates memory for all matrices and assign input to matrices.
Consumer performs performs matrix multiplication operation and free the memory, that is allocated for matrices.
Number of Items, Number of Producers, Number of Consumers.
Sequence of matrices and time taken to compute the multiplication.
Example 3.3  producer-consumer problem with concurrent queue using TBB.
( Download source code :   TBB-Producer-Consumer-v1.0.zip   )
Objective
In this problem, if multiple threads are producing and consuming concurrently, it is difficult to predict, which is first.
The concurrent_queue promises, that if a thread producing multiple values, and another thread consuming those same values, they will be consumed in the same order that they were produced.
So, here it is not necessary to use mutex-locks for establishing a producer-consumer relationship between threads.
Number of Items, Number of Producers, Number of Consumers.
Output
Sequence of Produced and Consumed Items.
Example 3.4  producer-consumer work queue problem with concurrent queue using TBB
( Download source code :   TBB-Producer-Consumer-v1.1.zip   )
To explain the producer-consumer work queue problem with concurrent queue using TBB
The concurrent_queue promises, that if the producer creates tasks and inserts them into a work-queue.
And consumer threads pick up tasks from the task queue and execute them.
They will be executed in the same order, that they were inserted in the work-queue.
Number of Items, Number of Producers, Number of Consumers.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
