#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=shashi_tharoor
Dr.Shashi Tharoor visits C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram
Trivandrum, July 13, 2011 - Dr. Shashi Tharoor, Hon’ble Member of Parliament and former Minister of State for External Affairs, today urged the scientists and engineers in the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) to work towards developing innovative and affordable technologies that will help in the growth of India as a major power in the Research and Development Sector.
He also said while addressing the employees of C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram, that R&D sector in India is growing in leaps and bounds and advised the technologists to focus on quality, since the cost advantage is not ever lasting.
Stating that current day technologists are not the ones who live in labs, isolated from the real world, he said they are well aware of the issues affecting the common man and are devising, deploying and improving solutions which suit the Indian conditions.
India’s R&D capability is being recognized the world over; the best example for this is the fact that global majors like Philips, General Electric and perhaps IBM have more R&D personnel employed in India than elsewhere.
He said that India is extremely well placed to be in high demand in R&D, but it is essential that the R&D organizations here should move away from any model of cost efficiency and build their organization on outstanding quality and quality of service.
Citing the example of mobile phone revolution in India he said that ICT has empowered ordinary people and it is this empowerment that will pave the way for future innovations.
Therefore the need to have affordable technologies was of prime importance.
Shri. R.Ravindra Kumar, Executive Director, C-DAC explained to Dr.Shashi Tharoor the whole range of activities of C-DAC.
He also visited the various labs of the centre and interacted with the scientists and engineers.
He watched with keen interest the demonstration of various technologies and products developed.
These included digital programmable hearing aid, acoustic land mine detector, hazardous object removal system, cyber forensics tools, TETRA-WiMAX base station, Area Traffic Control System, SCADA system for plant automation, Assessment and guidance tool for mentally disabled children, low cost mobile telemedicine systems etc. Dr.Shashi Tharoor was highly impressed with the activities of the centre and proudly announced that “C-DAC is a jewel in my constituency”
header
dr_shashi
