#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=portal
PORTAL
The GARUDA Access Portal is a user-friendly web portal for submitting sequential and parallel jobs to GARUDA Grid.
It also monitors the submitted jobs, provides facilities such as on-line credential management, reservation of computational nodes, file management, seamless integration of the Grid Meta Scheduler, accounting, and Facility for Partners to create and update their web pages.
The following are the features of the GARUDA Access Portal tool’s recent version 1.3:
Features
Job submission through Gridway and GT4 web services
Job monitoring, View/Download Output files, Cancellation of submitted jobs
Reservation of computational nodes for guaranteed - availability of resources
Accounting information of jobs submitted through - the Portal
MyProxy-based authentication to provide enhanced security
Listing of Available Resources in the GARUDA grid
Support for Virtual Organizations through - VOMS (Virtual Organization Management Service)
Platforms
Platforms and Browsers that support Grid Portal
Linux Platform
Mozilla ver.
1.6 and above.
Firefox ver.
1.0.4 and above
Windows Platform
Internet Explorer ver.
6.0.2 and above.
1.5.0.1 and above.
Solaris Platform
Netscape ver.
6.2.3 and above.
Release History
Major Feature (s) in the Release
Version 1.3
on 21/07/2009
This is the current release, and the features have been mentioned above
Version 1.2
on 09/05/2008
Job Submission through Moab Scheduler
Heterogeneous job submission through Globus
View Available Resources
Accounting information of the submitted jobs
Use Semantic Search for better selection of the available clusters
Supports taking executables and input files from Storage Resource Broker (SRB)
Version 1.1
on 21/02/2007
Supports MPICH job submission through Globus
Supports Multiple Application Specific Input, Output and Error files
Memory limit for uploading the Executable/Input files has been raised to 1GB
Shows only the relevant clusters for Basic Submission rather than showing all the available clusters
Entries have been added to FAQs.
and Notices based on user input
Version 1.0
on 24/08/2006
Sequential and Homogeneous Parallel Job Submission to the GARUDA Grid through Moab Grid Scheduler
Sequential, Homogeneous Parallel and Heterogeneous Parallel Job Submission to the GARUDA Grid through Globus middleware
- Accepts RSL file from the user
- Automatic creation of RSL file based on user inputs
Browsing available Grid resources
Viewing job status and output
Alpha Release
on 30/03/2005
Condor-G as the scheduler.
Static scheduling
Supports sequential and parallel applications
Accounting based on Condor-G
Future Enhancements
The following are the major features that are planned:
Integration of the Mobile Phone Network with GARUDA
- Job Re-submission through Mobile Phone
- SMS on job status change
Integration with SRM Data Grid Solution
Peer to peer Architecture
Supporting parallel jobs other than MPI (such as PVM, SHMEM, TBB, KAAPI, etc)
Enhanced support for MPI
- Support for vendor MPI
- Support for Master-Slave MPI Applications
Supporting more varieties of applications
- Java applications
- Workflows
Better file management: Support for Zip File Uploading, creation of directories, putting Output/Error Files in different directories, support for Wild Card option during file uploading
Better Job Management
- Cancel Multiple Jobs
- Dynamic Display of Job Status
Enhanced User Interaction
- Discussion Forums
- Audio-Visual Help
header
