#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=bn_hpc
System Software
The HPCC software suite of products includes high performance compilers, parallel debuggers, data visualisers and performance profilers.
High performance communication protocols and efficient MPI implementation provide the correct framework to extract maximum performance.
The HPCC software consists of
Base software that includes a lightweight communication substrate, optimized MPI, and a parallel file system with MPI-IO interface
A Program Development environment, providing a rich set of FORTRAN 77 / Fortran 90 program development tools, and an integrated debugging environment for parallel programs
System Management tools for monitoring the effective utilization of the cluster resources and for administration of large UNIX clusters
Software engineering tools for developing high quality programs
Standards Adherence
C-DAC's HPCC software follows established standards to minimize learning time and maximize ease-of-use.
Most commands use familiar UNIX syntax.
HPCC software graphical user interfaces comply with Motif or Java style standards.
HPCC's implementation of the MPI standard closely follows the published standard and allows programmers to write portable parallel applications which run on the PARAM systems and other cluster systems supporting the standard.
HPCC SOFTWARE: PRODUCT COMPONENTS
C-MPI
Optimized implementation of MPI for Cluster of Multi Processors (CLUMPS).
Both point-to-point and collective calls have been optimized.
Effectively uses both shared and distributed memory of CLUMPS.
C-PFS
Parallel File System Provides MPI-IO file system interface to parallel applications
KSHIPRA
Scalable Communication substrate layered over PARAMNet and Gigabit Ethernet for UNIX clusters
F90IDE
Integrated Development Environment for Fortran 77/90 that includes compiler, debugger, profiler, source code browser and Fortran 77 to F90 convertor.
PCF90
An automatic parallelizing compiler for Fortran for SMP based architecture.
DIViA
Parallel program correctness and performance debugger.
Detects communication bottlenecks and supports message debugging.
PARMON
Cluster monitoring tool.
Monitors the cluster as a unified resource.
Provides Web Interface for monitoring over internet.
RMS
Resource Management Software for effective load balancing and load scheduling on clusters.
PARCOM
Parallel Unix Commands.
Provides parallel extensions to traditional UNIX commands.
MetricAdvisor
Software engineering tool for metrics.
Evaluates Halstead, McCabe, Complexity Density, Fan-in and Fan-out metrics.
Availability
Supported Hardware
Workstation Clusters
Supported Operating System
AIX, Solaris and Linux
User Interfaces
GUI
Supported Languages
Fortran 77/90, C
Prerequisite softwares
Java, X/Motif
Prerequisite hardware for base software
PARAMNet, Gigabit Ethernet
Key features of HPCC software
Exploits hardware features for communication, providing a low latency and high bandwidth communication substrate
Supports complete implementation of the MPI standard.
Collective algorithms tuned to a Cluster of Multiprocessors (CLUMPS) architecture
Provides scalable parallel IO for Unix clusters
Full function development environment for parallel and distributed applications with support for parallel program debugging and profiling
Provides an integrated Fortran 90 Development Environment
Unified system management tool for cluster monitoring and administration
Adheres to established and emerging standards in parallel and distributed computing
header
