#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=accs_cdac_award2011
Vijay K. Bhargava bags ACCS-CDAC Foundation Award for 2011
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Bangalore, July 25, 2011
ACCS, the Advanced Computing and Communications Society, today announced the name of Prof. Vijay Kishore Bhargava as the winner of the prestigious ACCS-CDAC Foundation award for 2011.
The Award recognizes his outstanding contributions to the body of science in Communication Engineering.
The Award instituted in 2004, by the Advanced Computing and Communications Society (ACCS) and the Center for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), fosters the development and dissemination of the theory and applications of Computing and Communications sciences.
ACCS-CDAC Award is given to the outstanding contributions and accomplishments that have had a significant and demonstrable effect on the practice of computing and communications.
The 2011 ACCS-CDAC Foundation award goes to Dr. Vijay K. Bhargava of University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada for his role in influencing the growth and impact on Communication technologies.
The Award recognizes his career contributions that have breadth across communications and information sciences.
Dr. Bhargava is a Fellow of the IEEE and is the recipient of numerous honors across the world.
He is the founder and President of Binary Communications Inc. and has authored numerous books in Communications technologies.
He has been a member of the Board of Governors of the IEEE Communications Society and the IEEE Information Theory Society.
He was the editor-in-chief of the IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications and has also served as the Director of Journals.
Vijay Bhargava has been elected to serve the IEEE Communications Society as its President-Elect during 2011 and as President during 2012 and 2013.
His illustrious career spans four decades as a communications visionary and his pioneering contributions has had significant effect on the practice of computing and communications today.
"The ACCS-CDAC Award highlights the essential role of computing and communications in the technology-driven world, " said ACCS President Dr. S. K. Sinha.
"Dr. Bhargava contributions have been instrumental in influencing communications technologies while defining new standards for teaching and research in graduate education and is a role model for practicing communications professionals world-wide."
he noted.
The ACCS-CDAC Foundation Award will be presented at a plenary session of the annual Advanced Computing and Communications Conference (ADCOM) later this year at Bangalore.
About ACCS
ACCS (www.accsindia.org) is a registered scientific society founded to provide a forum to individuals, institutions and industry to promote advanced Computing and Communication technologies.
It is widely recognized as the premier organization for computing professionals in India delivering a broad array of resources that advance the computing and networking disciplines and enables professional development.
ADCOM® and ICCBN are the flagship events of ACCS.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, March 02, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
Accs Award
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
