#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=prs_rl206
Inauguration & Launch of Odisha Telemedicine Network (Phase III)
Inauguration & Launch of Odisha Telemedicine Network (Phase III)
Pune
November 26, 2011
The Medical Informatics Group (MIG) of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune has successfully completed the rollout phase of Odisha Telemedicine Network (Phase-III) program.
The Odisha Telemedicine Network was inaugurated and launched at the hands of Shri. Prasanna Acharya, Hon’ble Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of Odisha at SCB Medical College, Cuttack, Odisha on November 25, 2011.
Starting the event, Prof. B. N. Mohanty, Chief Nodal Officer, Odisha Telemedicine Network, briefed about the network comprising 22 district hospitals and 03 super specialty hospitals.
Shri. Prasanna Acharya, Hon’ble Minister of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of Odisha interacted with patients and doctors at some of the district hospitals using the telemedicine facility.
He also witnessed live telemedicine consultation conducted by Prof. P. K. Das,  Director of Medical Education and Training.
Over the telemedicine link, Prof. P. K. Pradhan, Additional Professor, Nuclear Medicine Department, SGPGIMS, Lucknow, informed that the deployed technology from C-DAC can be also used for tele-mentoring and advising surgeons, at the time of surgery.
Speaking on the occasion, Shri. Prasanna Acharya said that in previous phases the telemedicine technology has already benefited thousands of patients who suffered from major illness.
In fact, telemedicine is most beneficial to poor people as it avoids travel and related costs in most of cases by facilitating specialist to assist the local physician in treatment, Hon’ Minister said, hoping that the people of Odisha will benefit from this advanced technology.
Ms. Anu Garg, Commissioner-cum-Secretary, Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of Odisha, thanked all the teams who worked towards implementation of this network and encouraged everyone to make best use this facility.
Odisha Telemedicine Network (Phase III) is being implemented by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune as a Build-Maintain-Transfer project at twenty-five sites for running telemedicine and CME services in the state of Odisha for next two years.
This project augments the existing telemedicine services, built in Phase-I and Phase-II previously, in the state and completely covers the entire state under telemedicine services network.
In current phase, it connects three specialty hospitals with twenty-two district level hospitals in the state of Odisha.
C-DAC has built telemedicine networks in several places covering Specialty Hospitals, District Hospitals, Taluka Hospitals and PHCs.
Telemedicine network of Tamilnadu, Kerala, North-Eastern states, Ethiopia Pilot project are to name a few.
The Mission Directorate, National Rural Health Mission, Government of Odisha had funded this program in the state of Odisha.
Dr. Pradeep K. Sinha, Senior Director (HPC), and Chief Investigator of this project from C-DAC, Pune informed that this telemedicine network will set an example for the nation in using IT for betterment of healthcare services.
He further explained that the program will benefit people by reaching specialty care to remote places across the state.
Mr. Gaur Sunder, Head of Medical Informatics Group, C-DAC, Pune explained that Build phase of Odisha Telemedicine Network (Phase III) has been completed.
C-DAC's MercuryTM Web Telemedicine Solution is used as telemedicine technology in this network.
MercuryTM technology platform can build a virtual pool of experts delivering quality healthcare across the country, overcoming the barriers of distance.
It not only benefits the patients, but also benefits the nation in several ways such as:
Reduce patient load at specialty hospitals as patient can access quality healthcare consultation at district itself
Benefits patient financially as patient and care-giving family members need not undertake travel
Improves overall healthcare delivery through CME knowledge delivery network
Local Physicians and Specialist use state-of-art tools for capturing, storing, viewing, and exchanging medical records that helps in collaborative diagnostics & treatment
Hassle-free and paper-less healthcare delivery as patient records are digitized and shared across for expert opinion
Dr. Pradeep Sinha
Sr. Director (HPC), C-DAC
E-Mail:psinha@cdac.in
Shri Gaur Sunder
Head – Medical Informatics, C-DAC, Pune
E-Mail:gaurs@cdac.in
header
