#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_et_noida_130318_ESD
C-DAC ESD BOARD
Brief Description
CDAC's Embedded System Development board is mainly useful in prototyping for general microcontroller application based designs.
This board is based on ARM Cortex STM32F030R8T6 32-bit device.
It supports more input/output options and lots of peripheral interfaces than other entry-level microcontrollers.
It is a low cost board and incorporates: Low power 32-bit microcontroller, High performance ARM Cortex-M0 CPU running at frequency upto 48MHz, 256KB of integrated Flash and 32KB SRAM.
This kit also includes various components like sensors, display device, wireless devices.
The open source IDE like Eclipse Neon or CooCox software can be used to write the code in high level language.
The open source firmware STFLASH provided by ST Microelectronics can be used to program the microcontroller.
The design can be controlled and configured through PC using high speed USB interface provided on the board.The various on-chip peripherals on the board have been chosen carefully to enable the students perform the basic experiments as well as complex Embedded applications using the Cookbook provided with the board.
Available E-learning content developed for students helps them to understand the functioning of boards to perform basic experiments.
Main Uses and Domain
This development board is targeted for students in academic domain.
The board offers a rich set of features that make it suitable for use in the following: Laboratory for undergraduate & postgraduate courses and Variety of design projects.
Intelligence at the edge: Entry-level MCU bringing intelligence to the edge for academic learning as well as real-world applications.
It also provides embedded developers a powerful and productive platform for building various applications.
For developers new to 32-bit microcontrollers, this board provides an accessible prototyping solution to get projects built with the resources provided along.
Features and Technical Specifications
ARM Cortex-M0 CPU, 2.4V to 3.6V operating voltage, Up to 48MHz operating frequency, 3 Clock sources, 55 fast I/O's, 12-bit ADC, 11 Timers, 5-channel DMA controller, Serial wire debug, Real Time clock interface through I2C, 4Mbit flash interface through SPI, 2Axis Joystick interface for ADC, Infrared sensor interface, Bluetooth interface through UART, LED and Pushbutton interface through GPIO, Alphanumeric LCD, Tri Color LED, Cookbook of published libraries and projects
Platform required (if any)
This board is tested on both Linux and Windows with multiple integrated development environments like eclipse, Coocox for developing, optimizing and debugging applications.
Eclipse and Coocox are open source IDE's in which we can port the cortex M0 API's of on-chip peripherals easily included in a package called CMSIS library.
Read more
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Dr. Arti Noor
Associate Director, C-DAC, Noida
Mobile:9868675191
e-mail id: artinoor [at] cdac [dot] in
header
