#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pe_iot_EFD_SEG
Early Fire Detection and Safe Exit Guidance System (EFD-SEG)
Brief Description
Fire can result in life threatening disasters and can be caused due to a variety of reasons.
An early fire detection system becomes of critical importance in such circumstances.
C-DAC’s EFD-SEG system senses the abnormal rise in the in-line current & voltage, temperature, humidity, LPG leakage, smoke and sends the information through Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n) to a control room (server).
The end users will be connected to the server through the deployed Wi-Fi infrastructure.
In case of an emergency, a mobile app on the user’s phone provides the possible navigational paths flashing the fire location and the crowd
density at the possible exits.
Furthermore, by accurately locating the source of fire, this information is made available to fire fighting and other security agencies for effective mitigation of fire and to bring the situation under control.
The two hardwares responsible for sensing and preventing fire are the EFD Sensing Node and the Protective Relay Node.
EFD sensing node is a Wi-Fi enabled device which senses the local temperature, humidity, gas (LPG, CO2 etc.) and smoke and sends the corresponding data to a remote server.
The data can be viewed and analyzed remotely from a dashboard.
In case of any fire hazard, the registered local and regional fire authority is intimated through SMS and e-mails.
The system can also be used for indoor comfort analysis.
Protective Relay Node
Protective Relay Node is a Wi-Fi enabled device which senses the supply voltage and the in-line current and sends the corresponding data to a remote server.
Similar to the EFD sensing node, the data can be viewed and analyzed remotely from a dashboard.
Majority of fire incidents happen due to electrical malfunction.
This device acts as a protective shield against such incidents.
EFD Dashboard
EFD dashboard is enabled with multitudinous features.
The map of the building, where the EFD solution is deployed, can be loaded on the Home page.
The map shows the various deployed EFD Sensing
Node and Protective Relay Node and the last received data value.
The node display is color coded to reflect various states of the node like normal state, intermittent state, alarm state, off state etc. Data can be exported and time-plots can be generated from the dashboard.
Frequency of data collection can also be changed from dashboard.
Main uses and domain
Early Fire Detection System and Safe Exit Guidance System
Comprehensive Fire Detecting Node - EFD Sensing Node
Indoor Electrical Monitoring - Protective Relay Node
Features and Technical Specifications
Smoke - Photoelectric Smoke Sensor - 2351TEM
Gas - MQ-5 - Natural gas and LPG – (5 V operation; 200-10000 ppm)
Temperature - SHT21P (0.3 oC accuracy; 40 oC to 125 oC)
Wi-Fi - CC3200 - Single-Chip Wireless MCU
Microcontroller - MSP430FE427A
Solid State Relay - 25 A
Voltage sensor - Voltage divider circuit, 990k and 1.5k
Current sensor - PA3209NL, Sidewinder Rogowski coil, 0.1-1000 A current rating
Wi-Fi- CC3200 - Single-Chip Wireless MCU
Server
Jboss Application Server (WildFly) V10.1.0
MySQL Server V 5.5.55
Ubuntu Server V 14.04.1
Spring Framework V 4.2.0
Hibernate V 5.0.2
JQuery, JavaScript, CSS4, HTML5, BootStrap v3.3.7
Platform required (if any): NA
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Nagesh R, nageshr [at] cdac [dot] in
Aswath Rao, aswath [at] cdac [dot] in
Haribabu P, hari [at] cdac [dot] in
header
