#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_et_E_IPC_DACMohali
International Training under ITEC scheme of MEA
Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation programme was launched in 1964 as a bilateral programme of assistance of the Government of India.
Under ITEC 161 countries in Asia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, Africa and Latin America are invited to share in the Indian Developmental experience acquired over five decades of India’s existence as a free Nation.
ITEC is about cooperation and partnership for mutual benefit.
It is response oriented and it addresses the needs of developing countries.
Training:
Ever since the inception of ITEC programme, training of thousands of nominees of ITEC Partner countries have been the most successful cooperation programme and is highly appreciated by the recipient countries.
Training, both civilian and defense personnel, constitute about 40 percent of annual ITEC programme budget.
Civilian Training:
Each year the Ministry of External Affairs empanels institutions, and training courses are identified and offered.
Thereafter, through Indian Missions abroad the information about the courses are disseminated to the Foreign Offices and other concerned departments of ITEC partner countries.
Applications of the nominees of these countries, duly recommended by the Heads of Missions/Posts are then sent both to the MEA and the Institutions concerned.
After scrutinizing the eligibility of such candidates, approvals for joining the courses are given by the TC Division.
Government of India bears the entire expenditure for ITEC trainings in India, which includes airfare, tuition fees, living allowances, medical expenses, book grants.
C-DAC Mohali is conducting the ITEC Courses since 1999 in various areas.
CDAC, Mohali has trained around 2000 ITEC participants.
S. No.
Name of the course
Duration
(days)
Period
Course Url
From
To
Specialized Training Programme in Cyber Attacks and Prevention Techniques
Apply Here
Specialized Training Programme in Augmented and Virtual Reality
Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Education Pedagogy in COVID time: Challenges & Opportunity
Introductory Training Programme in Quantum Computing
Contact:
Email: manjeet [at] cdac [dot] in
How to apply
For applying please visit www.itecgoi.in or click below link
Apply for ITEC Course
Time Zone: GMT + 05:30
header
