#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=job_CAE-3-SA
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - Solution Architect
Name of Post
CAE - III (15 years and above experience)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - Solution Architect
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech./ME/ M. Tech in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication/Electrical/ Electrical & Electronics
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience
For - BE/ B. Tech / MCA/ ME/ M. Tech/ First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline - 15 years and above
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Desired Skill Sets
Hands-on experience in Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring Security, Microservices
Hands-on experience of working on Spring boot based Microservices
Working knowledge of microservices DevOps tools (Git, Jenkins, JUnit, deployment, monitoring, tracing)
Sound understanding of core Java, SOAP Services, REST Services, Spring & Maven, with Linux platform
Expertise Should have a working knowledge on web servers (e.g. ApacheHTTP) and application servers (e.g.Tomcat, Jboss)
Should have working knowledge of any relational database.
Preferred will be Oracle
Experience with configuration management frameworks such as Ansible, Chef, and Tecrraform Development background ability to read and modify the code and fix build issues
Experience with task automation using off-the-shelf tools and/or customized scripts Experience in performing Linux and Windows systems administration, including troubleshooting, security/performance monitoring, and tuning
Experience developing and supporting software applications within a multiplatform continuous integration, deployment, and delivery environment
Designing innovative technical solutions using DevOps practices.
Experience working on open source platforms (Apache, Tomcat, Nginx, Node.js, etc) Hosted and configured cloud-based service experience using AWS
Experience with performing infrastructure automation and development using configuration management and containerization technologies like Chef, Ansible, Terraform and Docker for multi-tier web applications
Knowledge of virtualization environments (e.g. VMWare, OpenStack, KVM)
Knowledge of distributed version control systems (e.g. Git/Stash)
Good understanding of RESTful web services
Good to have Passion for writing great, simple, clean, efficient code
Should be a very fast learner and have excellent problem-solving capabilities
Should have excellent written and verbal communication skills
Experience working in large-scale distributed systems is a plus
Should be able to independently design and build components for the automation platform
Should assist in maintenance of the tools and troubleshooting the issues
Proposed Job Profile
Asp.NET MVC Solution/ Enterprise Architect with 15+ years of experience.
Extensive experience with Microsoft Stack, Microsoft .Net Core/ MVC/ MS Sql Server.
Hands on experience with RESTful, Microservices architecture, containerization and Devops (Git/ Jenkins/ NUnit etc).
Experience in designing and supporting large scale platforms in cloud (AWS/ Azure)
Experience developing and supporting software applications within a multi-platform continuous integration, deployment, and delivery environment
Working knowledge of IIS
Experience in designing high performance large data applications.
Troubleshooting performance related issues.
Hands on experience on any of the message queue.
Experience working in large-scale distributed systems is a plus.
Experience of Mongo DB , SOLR, Enterprise DB
Designing High Performance platform specially in Cloud Environment.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
header
