#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hpc_sa_csm_completed_projects
CSM Recent completed projects
Recent Completed Projects
1. Optimum Design of FRP Composite Laminates Using Parallel Genetic Algorithms (In Collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati)
carried out a transient dynamic finite element analysis for studying the responses and predicting impact damage of structural composites and effect of various important parameters on the impact.
Genetic algorithm was used to optimize the stacking sequence of the laminated component based on the appropriate failure criteria for delamination and matrix cracking.
Schematic Island Model Parallel GA (IMPGA)
2. Optimum Design and Active Vibration Control of Smart FRP Structures on Parallel Platform (In Collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati)
FE Code development for analysis of Smart FRP structures.
Development of different control strategies for active vibration control.
Development of GA based optimal control strategies for active vibration control and comparative performance analysis.
Development of parallel GA based optimization methodologies for optimal locations of sensors and actuator patches.
Comparative study of different control methodologies and its optimization.
3. Development of Earthquake Risk Analysis System for RC Frame Structures on Grid Computing (In Collaboration with SGSITS Indore)
To develop a User Friendly Web based problem solving environment facility to carry out large-scale simulations on C-DAC's HPC systems and also to make it available on Grid Computing system.
To enhance the OpenSeeS framework for Indian users.
To make this process cycle user-friendly with the help of GUI support, and to make it available on HPC platform in India.
To carry out non-linear (Incremental Dynamic) analysis of multi-storied building frames and bridge structures and to make these results available to Indian Users as a tool for their risk analysis projects.
4. Large scale Earthquake Simulations of Karad Bridge using OpenSees
Seismic Response of Reinforced Concrete Karad Bridge in OpenSees using High Performance Computing: A two-dimensional nonlinear model of the Karad Bridge, including the superstructure, piers, and supporting piles was developed using GiD.
Tcl model script has been generated and given as inputs to OpenSees.
This bridge is situated on Guhagar-Karad-Jat-Vijapur, S. H. 78 at 141/200 across Krishna River near Karad and constructed as high level bridge by keeping pier positions in line with the piers of existing bridge.
Hence, proposed span arrangement is 39.5 m, 38.0 m, 40.0 m, 40.0 m, 40.0 m, 40.0 m, 39.0 m and 39.0 m. The total length of the bridge is 315.50 m.
The bridge is having two lanes with 7.5 m clear road width between the kerbs and footpath 1.5 m width on D/S.
8-span composite structures with pre-stressed concrete box and RCC piers provide continuity.
Piers are supported on pile groups, each of which is RCC pile.
The foundation data is composed of mainly medium to dense clayey sand.
In addition, fractured amagdoidal basalt layers are present.
The hard rock is located at 23 m to 25 m depth
2D Modeling using GiD of existing Karad Bridge
Deformations for the spans
header
