#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_gp-cp-hyb-cmp-opcl-omp-prg
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Cluster
Mode-5 HPC Cluster
HPC-MPI Cluster
GPU Cluster -NVIDIA
GPU Cluster - AMD APP
Cluster - Intel Coprocessors
Cluster - Power & Perf.
contents
overview
Module 1:GPU Cluster:OpenMP - OpenCL - Matrix Computations
Module 2:GPU Cluster:Pthreads - OpenCL Dense Matrix Computations
Module 3:MPI-OpenCL-Dense Matrix Compuations - Application Kernels
Module 4:GPU Cluster Health Monitoring - Low level Benchmarks
A prototype Hybrid Adaptive Cluster that can be made "adaptive" to the application it is running, assigning the most effective resources in real-time as per application demands, without requiring modifications to the application.
The goal of this mixed environment is to provide total workflow optimization, which takes cares-off applications that do not parallelize well on scalar processors, can be optimized with the appropriate computation model.
The system aim is to develop system software and integrate components of the State-of-the-Art-Technology such as Reconfigurable FPGA, Stream accelerators NVIDIA GPU computing, AMD Stream computing and IBM Cell Broadband Engine Processors, and Multi-Core Processors.
Example 1.1
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to compute vector vector multiplication on Multi-CPU using global memory features of OpenCL.
(OpenCL Events is used to synchronize the CPU and GPU devices.)
Example 1.2
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to Compute the value of  pie  value by Numerical Integration using OpenMP directives and OpenCL ( Assignment )
Example 1.3
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix Vector multiplication using BLAS1 Library.
( Assignment )
Example 1.4
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix Matrix multiplication using BLAS1 library on device GPU
Example 1.5
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix Matrix multiplication on Multi-GPUs using global memory & local memory ( Assignment )
Description of OpenMP - OpenCL Programs
Example 1.1:
Write a OpenMP OpenCL program to vector vector multiplication based on OpenMP & OpenCL directives
(Download source code :)
Vect_Vect_Add_Openmp_Opencl.c
Vect-Vect-Add.cl
view source
print
Objective
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to compute vector vector multiplication using global memory model of OpenCL
This is an openMP implementation on host-CPU using  p  threads of OpenMP and computation on  device-GPU.
This is an implementation of vector-Vector multiplication using the block striped partitioning algorithm on  host-CPU  and  device-GPU.
Each OpenMP thread gets the block of entries of vector and each transfers the block of its vector elements to the  device-GPU from  host-CPU.
On each  device-GPU, the partial elements of the two vectors are multipled by calling the OpenCL kernel Vector-VectorMultiplication and writes the partial sclar value.
The result scalar is transfered from  device-GPU  to  host-CPU.
Output
OpenMP Master thread on  host-cpu  prints the resultant sclar value  n.
Example 1.2:
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to Compute the value of  pie  value by Numerical Integration using OpenMP directives and OpenCL.
( Assignment )
Objective
This is an openMP implementation on host-CPU using  p  threads of OpenMP and computation on  device-GPU using OpencL APIs One approach is to partition the data among the processes.
That is we partition the interval of integration [0,1] among the OpenMP threads, and each thread estimates local integral over its number of subinterval on GPU using OpenCL APIs.
The comptuations on GPU produced by the individual OpenMP thread are transformed back to  host-CPU .
These results are combined on  host-CPU  to produce the final result.
On  host-CPU, prints the result.
To perform this integration numerically, divide the interval from 0 to 1 into n subintervals and add up the areas of the rectangles as shown in the Figure 1 (n = 5).
Large values of n give more accurate approximations of pi .
Use MPI point-to-point communication library calls.
Figure 1 Numerical integration of  pie  function
We assume that n is total number of subintervals, p is the number of processes and p < n.
One simple way to distribute the total number of subintervals to each process is to dividen by p.
There are two kinds of mappings that balance the load.
One is a block mapping, partitions the array elements into blocks of consecutive entries and assigns the block to the processes.
The other mapping is a cyclic mapping.
It assigns the first element to the first process, the second element to the second, and so on.
If n > p, we get back to the first process, and repeat the assignment process for remaining elements.
This process is repeated until all the elements are assigned.
We have used a cyclic mapping for partition of interval [0,1] onto p processes.
Input
OpenMP master thread on  Host-CPU  prints the computed value of pi function.
Output
OpenMP master thread on  Host-CPU  prints the resultant vector
Example 1.3:
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix vector multiplication based on OpenMP & CUDA directives and use OpenCL BLASlibrary funcation calls to compute block vector into vector multiplication.
( Assignment )
Objective
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to Matrix vector multiplication based on CUBLAS1 library funcation calls to compute vector vector multiplication
This is an implementation of Matrix-Vector multiplication using the block striped partitioning algorithm on  host-CPU  and  device-GPU.
Each OpenMP thread gets the block of rows of the matrix and each transfers the block of its rows and vector to the  device-GPU from  host-CPU.
Then each  device-GPU multiplies the corresponding block matrix with the vector by calling the OpenCL kernel VectorVectorMultiplication (BLAS1 library call) and writes the partial product into the result vector.
The result vector is transfered from  device-GPU  to  host-CPU.
on  host-CPU to the output array.
Input
OpenMP Master thread on  host-cpu  reads the input matrix and the vector of size  n .
Output
OpenMP master thread on  Host-CPU  prints the resultant vector
Example 1.4:
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix Matrix multiplication based on OpenMP & CUDA directives and use BLAS1 library funcation calls to compute block matrix into matrix multiplication.
(Download source code based on Device Global Memory: )
Mat_Mat_Mult_Openmp_Opencl_GlobalMemory.cl
(Download source code based on Device Shared Memory: )
Mat_Mat_Mult_Openmp_Opencl_SharedMemory.cl
clOmpMatMatMultShared.c / matrixMultShared.cl
Objective
Write a OpenMP OpenCL program to compute Matrix Matrix multiplication based on OpenMP & OpenCL directives and use BLAS1 library funcation calls to compute vector vector multiplication
This is an openMP implementation Matrix-Matrix multiplication on host-CPU using  p  threads of OpenMP and computation on  device-GPU in which block striped partitioning of the both input matrices on  host-CPU  is performance and on device-GPU, the CUDA BLAS1 library call is used to compute vector-vector multiplication algorithm.
Each OpenMP thread gets the block of rows of the input matrix  A and a block of columns of input matrix  B.
Computations of block matrices are performed on  device-GPU  using tuned BLAS1 mathematical libraries on device-GPU.
Then, one  device-GPU  multiplies the corresponding block matrices by calling the OpenCL kernel MatrixMatrixMultiplication using BLAS1 library and writes the partial output matrix i.e.,  C .
The result block matrix  C  is transfered from  device-GPU  to  host-CPU.
Input
OpenMP Master thread on  host-cpu  reads the both input matrices of square size  n
Output
OpenMP master thread on  Host-CPU  prints the resultant output matrix
Example 1.5:
Write a OpenMP-OpenCL program to perform Matrix Matrix multiplication using global and local memory.
Objective
Write a OpenMP OpenCL program to compute Matrix Matrix multiplication based on OpenMP & OpenCL directives using global and local memory
This is an openMP implementation Matrix-Matrix multiplication on host-CPU using  p  threads of OpenMP and computation on  device-GPU in which block striped partitioning of the both input matrices on  host-CPU  is performed and on device-GPU.
Computations of block matrices are performed on  device-GPU  on device-GPU.
Then, one  device-GPU  multiplies the corresponding block matrices by calling the OpenCL kernel performs MatrixMatrixMultiplication and writes the partial output matrix i.e.,  C .
Input
OpenMP Master thread on  host-cpu  reads the both input matrices of square size  n
Output
OpenMP master thread on  Host-CPU  prints the resultant output matrix
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
copy to clipboard
?
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
