#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mlc_gist_ocr
OCR
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Multilingual Computing
Gist
In this digital day and age, it has become obligatory to have all the available information in a digital form recognized by machines.
In the country like India, where there is abundance of information in the form of manuscripts, ancient texts, books etc that are traditionally available in printed / handwritten form, such printed material are in-adequate when it comes to searching information among thousand of pages.
It has to be digitized and converted to a textual form in-order to be recognized by machines doing searches of a million pages / second.
Then only, the true knowledge of Indian history, tradition and culture would be available to the masses and the digital revolution would be said to have reached the information age.
Optical character recognition plays an important role in achieving this.
It converts the scanned images of books, magazines, and newspapers into machine-readable text.
Almost all Indian scripts are cursive in nature making them hard to recognize by machines.
Scripts like Devanagari, Gujarati, Bengali and many others have conjuncts or joint-characters increasing segmentation difficulties.
To add to that, various fonts of various sizes used for printing texts over the years, the quality of paper, scanning resolution, images in texts etc asks for a challenging image processing job.
Also, it requires huge linguistic know-how to apply post-processing.
The diagram shows the basic building blocks of an OCR system.
GIST Research Labs are committed to applying all of its image processing skills and linguistic know-how gathered over the years into developing a highly accurate Optical Character recognition engine.
C-DAC Gist Lab's research seeks to develop an Optical Character Recognition engine, which will enable highest levels of accuracy in converting Indian language images to text.
The basic OCR for Devanagari script named 'Chitrankan' can be found in its product portfolio.
ISSUES IN DEVELOPING OCR:
Noise in Input Image: These are main sources of noise in the input image.
Noise due to the quality of paper on which the printing is done.
Noise induced due to printing on both sides of paper "Back Paper Noise".
Noise added due to the scanner source brightness and sensors.
All these noises contribute to the decrease in accuracy of OCR system.
As a result of this having a noise correction routine in place becomes inevitable
Skew in Input Image
Having a skew in a multi line text image, creates problems in detecting lines in the text.
The problem becomes more complex due to the presence of ascenders and descenders in the Devanagari script.
Images embedded with Text in Input Image
Having images within the text creates problems in recognition as line segmentation using histogram analysis becomes impossible.
Another problem that emerges due to presence of irregular images is in handling of font and font size variations.
If the font size variation is large, it may get confused with the irregular shape image, resulting in reduction of accuracy
ISSUES IN OCR FOR DEVANAGARI SCRIPT
All the individual characters are joined by a head line called "Shiro Rekha" in case of Devanagari Script.
This makes it difficult to isolate individual characters from the words.
E.g.
There are various isolated dots, which are vowel modifiers, namely,
"Anuswar", "Visarga" and "Chandra Bindu", which add up to the confusion.
Ascenders and Decender recognition is also complex, attributed to the complex nature of the language.
Many composite characters can be formed like:
Bi-Lingual Nature of Text
In the scenario of a country like India, where there is a influence of many other European languages, like English, French and Portuguese, having these languages mixed in the text is inevitable.
Apart from the European languages, India itself has twenty-two official languages, which could also be found embedded in the text matter.
C-DAC has developed novel character and pattern segmentation methods that have been applied for the first time for solving the abovementioned problem of Devanagari OCR
For more details, please contact:
More information on GIST products
E-Mail:
info [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
Sales related information
sales [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
Support related information
support [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
ocr block diagram
mushkil
bilingual text
ocr design
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
