#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=cs_cf_CSG_WINLFT
Win-LiFT Windows Based Live Forensics Tool
Win-LiFT is a Windows Live Forensics Tool consisting of Win-LiFTImagerBuilder and Win-LiFTAnalyzer.
Live Forensics involves acquisition of volatile data from the Suspect's machine and analysis of the acquired data.
Win-LiFT enables volatile data acquisition using Win-LiFTImager and analysis of the same using Win-LiFTAnalyzer.
Win-LiFTImagerBuilder (Tool for building Win-LiFTImager)
Win-LiFTImagerBuilder, which runs in the Investigator's machine, builds Win-LiFTImager tool.
Features
Facility to enter crime details
Facility to select / deselect the list of volatile artifacts to be collected from the Suspect's system
Win-LiFTImager (Forensic Volatile Data Acquisition Tool)
Facility to select USB/Hard Disk drive to which Win-LiFTImager tool is to be built
Searching and Filtering
Searching and filtering helps to reach analyst's goals faster.
Flexible filter expressions are provided for packet level analysis and for data level analysis.
The data level filtering supports filtering based on date, time, IP, MAC and port.
The regular expression based searching gives the analyst the full power that he expects from a tool.
Analyze the Live Forensics data captured by Win-LiFTImager from the Suspect's machine
Advanced Memory Analysis from Windows XP and Windows 7 Physical Memory dump to extract the following forensically sound information
Running Process and its associated details
Process Reconstruction
Bitlocker Key Reconstruction
Internet usage based Information
MFT Records
Executable Reconstruction
Structural Analysis of Reconstructed Executables
Forensic Data Carving
Event Log Analysis
Browser Forensics of IE, Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Mozilla and Safari
Keyword Searching facility
Detailed Report Generation
Bookmarking and appending to Report facility
Facility to save and print Report
Independent Loading and analysis of Memory dump
Hash Verification of acquired information
Other Features
Display forensic evidence acquired in List/Tree/Summary View.
Gallery View and Summary view
Text-Hex View of raw files with built-in search and go to facility.
Parent-Child view of Running processes
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Group Head, Cyber Security Group,
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram
email- csg@cdac.in,  tpc@cdac.in
Phone : 0471 2781500
header
