#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ca_Adjunt_Engineer_04_2021
Cyber Security
Name of Post
CAE-1
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - Cyber Security
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Bengaluru
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. Tech / M. Tech.
in CSE/ECE
Experience
8 - 10 years of relevant experience
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Competence (one or more from the list)
Embedded C & Advanced “C” Programming
Micro Controller Programming
Knowledge in Cryptographic protocols, Key generation and key exchange protocols
Expertise in VAPT, Infrastructure Audit, Web Application Security Testing, Secure Code Review, database security, OWASP Top10, Mobile application
In depth understanding of operating systems including RTOS and Networking and their patch management
Professional certifications in the area of cyber security and privacy
Bio-metric/multi-factor/continuous authentication protocol design and deployment experience
Experience in managed security services
Knowledge of emerging trends including Zero Trust Architecture, Quantum safe design, Privacy aware design
Journal and Conference publications of repute.
Expectations
Design and develop hardware based embedded security modules, Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Trusted Platform Module (TPM), TPM backed TLS with light weight embedded Cryptographic algorithms.
Expertise in Nessus, Burpsuite, Metasploit framework, Sonarquib tools
In depth knowledge of C, C++ , java and scripting languages perl & python
Strong Device forensic and network forensics
Experience in adapting FOSS for specific use cases and applications
Plan and execute various VAPT , Audit services skills with experience in encase, FTK etc.
Experience in Security Operation Centre Management
Excellent oral and written communication skills.
Knowledge and experience on technical publications and patent process.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Back to previous page
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Knowledge Park, Opp. HAL Aeroengine Division
Near NGEF, Old Madras Road, Byappanahalli
Bengaluru - 560 038
header
