#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot1225
Vikaspedia knowledge portal: Kerala’s next target is total digitisation
Indian Express
July 9, 2018
C-DAC and National Informatics Centre are partnering with the project.
In the first phase, a workshop will be conducted for state-level master trainers and digital volunteers.
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Vikaspedia, the knowledge portal of the Union IT Ministry, is taking the lead to coordinate the efforts for making Kerala a complete digital state.
For this, the scattered online digital services and systems will be coordinated.
In the first phase, a workshop will be conducted for state-level master trainers and digital volunteers at the APJ Hall, Wayanad.
Selection of digital volunteers is progressing in all districts.
“The volunteers will work in different sectors like digital literacy training, awareness, IT supporting, digital programmes, IT development, cybersecurity and vigilance cell, social media, online unification, online services, digital financial literacy and IT infrastructure, ” said Shibu CV, state coordinator of Vikaspedia.
Union Tourism Minister Alphons Kannanthanam will inaugurate the workshop on July 4 at 10 am.
State IT Mission director Sreeram Sambasiva Rao will deliver the keynote address.
It will be attended by district informatics officers, district e-governance society project managers, district planning officers, Akshaya district coordinators, and volunteers.
Classes will be held on digital integration, Vikaspedia, Aadhaar, Akshaya services, online systems in the education sector and government and digital financial literacy.
Officers of different government departments, semi-government agencies, and private online portals will attend.
For registration, contact over 9656347995
The number of visitors and content contributors in Vikaspedia’s Malayalam version is increasing day by day.
There are six broad categories in the website viz, agriculture, health, education, social welfare, power, and e-governance.
Content contributors are mostly online volunteers.
A large number of people visited the portal to learn about digital transactions after the demonetisation and later during GST implementation.
Different state government departments and universities are associating with the project.
Wayand Social Service Society is the state coordinator.
Technical support is by C-DAC.
Workshops were earlier held in Kasargod, Kannur, Wayanad, Malappuram, and Alappuzha.
header
