#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_acts_BiharCourseHome
Free Coaching Scheme for State of Bihar
ACTS Home
C-CAT Result
Overview
Courses
Schedule
Centers
Admission Process
C-CAT rank for PG Diploma in Advanced Computing (PG-DAC) September 2021 for SC, ST, and OBC candidates in Bihar under project of DIT, Bihar is now declared.
About Programme:
Department of Information Technology, Government of Bihar in association in association with Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) A Scientific Society of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) Government of India invites application for admission to Post Graduate Diploma in Advanced Computing (PG-DAC) for the candidates from SC, ST and OBC category having domicile in the State of Bihar.
About C-DAC:
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is a Scientific Society of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) Government of India.
Read more
About Advanced Computing Training School:
C-DAC has set up the Advanced Computing Training School (ACTS) Pune to meet the ever-increasing skilled manpower requirements of the IT industry as well as supplement its intellectual resource base for cutting edge research and development.
Benefits:
A total of 100 beneficiaries shall be provided the training under this scheme
These IT courses are free of cost for the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Caste (OBC) Category
Important Dates:
PG-DAC Course:
Start of the application:
29th July 2021
Last Date of the application:
03rd August 2021
Downloading Admit Cards :
07th August 2021
Common Entrance Test:
07th & 08th August 2021
Result declaration of CET
20th August 2021
Document Verification and Registration:
20th September 2021
Commencement of Course:
21st September 2021
Eligibility:
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation, OR
MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics with Mathematics in 10+2, OR
Graduate in any discipline of Engineering, OR
Post Graduate Degree in Physics / Mathematics / Statistics, OR
MCA, MCM, OR
Post Graduate Degree in Management with graduation in IT / Computer Science/Applications.
Who Should Apply?:
Candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Caste (OBC) Category for the State of Bihar.
Note:
1) As PG Diploma in Advanced Computing course will be conducted online so required Laptop / PC configuration, hardware, software and network specification to attend the program is given in Section Admission Process Page.
2) Candidates who have already selected for courses under this scheme will not be eligible to apply again.
3) Candidates must belong to SC, ST and OBC category of Bihar State and submit domicile certificate of Bihar State at the time of admission.
4) All admission under this scheme are provisional subject to confirmation of Department of Information Technology (DIT), Government of Bihar.
Contact Us
14th floor, Biscomaun Tower,
West Gandhi Maidan,
Patna, Bihar - 800001
Phone No. : 0612-2219021
(All support contact numbers given above are available between 10 am - 1 pm and 2 pm - 5 pm on working days)
Email: infocdacpatna@cdac.in
header
New
New Arrow
