#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=st_egov_revival
C-DAC Revival : A traditional disaster recovery software solution.
Brief Description:
C-DAC Revival is an end to end DR solution, best suited for database intensive e-Gov and Business applications.
C-DAC Revival makes use of synchronous and semi-synchronous replication to achieve optimal business continuity with zero recovery point objective (RPO) and negligible recovery time objective (RTO).It uses iSCSI over TCP/IP to provide block replication at remote site.
It is interoperable with legacy hardware systems including SAN boxes and works very well with database based applications.
C-DAC Revival can be used to manage planned and unplanned outage, enabling 24x7 data availability.
With this business can provide long term continuity and availability, performance, productivity and customer satisfaction.
C-DAC Revival product ranges are :
● C-DAC Revival Sync: Real-time synchronous block replication over IP network from C-DAC Revival DC to C-DAC Revival DR located within 50 km to provide zero recovery point objective.
● C-DAC Revival Semi-sync : Real-time semi-synchronous block replication over IP network from C-DAC Revival DC to C-DAC Revival DR over WAN distances and provides negligible recovery point objective bounded by network delay.
● C-DAC Revival Optimal DR : Combination of synchronous and semi-synchronous block replication over IP network with three tier architecture to provide zero recovery point objective over WAN.
Main uses and domain :
e-Government application , Small and Medium Business (SMB) Applications, Data Centres
Features and Technical Specifications:
C-DAC DR Solution technical details:
C-DAC DR solution uses a patented (filed) , award winning and indigenously developed replication technology.
Supports Disaster Recovery for widely used databases such as Oracle, PostgreSQL, MSSQL, MySQL and Sybase.
Supports both forward (from Primary site to secondary site) and reverse (from secondary site to primary site) replication.
Ensures zero RPO and negligible RTO with its three site architecture of replication solution and online replication and recovery of database data.
Provides ordered data delivery of write operations.
Efficient network utilization using WAN optimization.
Eliminates vendor lock-in as C-DAC DR solution is inter-operable with VMWare, OpenStack and Microsoft cloud.
C-DAC Revival Product Details:
C-DAC Revival Semi-Sync
C-DAC Revival Optimal-DR
Replication Type
Synchronous
Semi-Synchronous
Combination of synchronous and Semi-Synchronous with re-compression technique
Replication support
Two way (Forward and Reverse)
Architecture Type
2 site with two Revival agents at respective site (Revival DC and Revival DR)
3 site with three Revival agents at respective site (Revival DC , Revival SA and Revival DR)
Maximum recommended distance
50 Kilometers
Unlimited
Zero
Negligible (Depends upon network latency and data rate)
Negligible: Bounded by network latency
Failover
Fully Automated using CDAC DRM
Data consistency at remote site
N/A
Data compression / recompression technique is used
Application /database interaction
Using iSCSI device drivers
Platform required (if any):
Infrastructure for porting DR software solution.
Current Status of the System (Deployment/Product Commercialization
Deployment
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Pricing
Pricing depends on type of License - Annual License or One time License.
Both licenses are inclusive of Technical support and major/minor version upgrades.
Click here to download the brochure
Contact us for further techno commercial details.
Email: cnie [at] cdac [dot] in
Contact Person:
Ms. Shreya Bokare, +91-22-2756 5303 Ext: 241
Ms. Shivraj Dongawe, +91-22-2756 5303 Ext: 242
header
