#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=aboutus_rti_centre
Right To Information Act2005
THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT 2005 - Pune (Head Quarters)
CPIO, Appellate Authority & Transparency Officer's Contact Details
RIGHT TO INFORMATION Obligations of Public Authorities
Remarks
(a)
Every public authority shall-
maintain all its records duly catalogued and indexed in a manner and the form which facilitates the right to information under this Act and ensure that all records that are appropriate to be computerized are, within a reasonable time and subject to availability of resources, computerized and connected through a network all over the country on different systems so that access to such records is facilitated;
All records are being/will be duly catalogued and indexed in order to facilitate Right to Information under the Act. Computerisation of the records will be done in a phased manner on need basis and subject to availability of resources.
(b)
publish before the commencement of this Act, -
(i) the particulars of its organization, functions and duties;
In accordance with MoA,  Rules and Regulations, Bye-Laws
(ii) the powers and duties of its officers and employees;
As per Bye-Laws
iii) the procedure followed in the decision making process, including channels of supervision and accountability;
Decision making process is followed as per  delegation of power/Bye Laws and decisions of various bodies
(iv) the norms set by it for the discharge of its functions;
As per Bye-Laws and decisions of various bodies
(v) the rules, regulations, instructions, manuals and records, held by it or under its control or used by its employees for discharging its functions;
As per MoA, R & R, Bye-Laws,  Delegation of Powers,  Recruitment Rules  office orders etc. Records are held by respective departments
(vi) a statement of the categories of documents that are held by it or under its control.
Documents are categorized as
(a) Confidential and non-confidential
(b) Function wise or department wise.
(c) Retaintivity wise.
Documents/files are kept by / with concerned department e.g. purchase files are in the custody of purchase department.
(vii) the particulars of any arrangement that exists for consultation with, or representation by the members of the public in relation to the formulation of its policy or implementation thereof.
Policies/objectives of an organization are decided in consultation with Dept of Electronics and Information Technology, Govt of India.
Direct public is not required to interface for this purpose.
However parliamentary committee do visit C-DAC and assess its performance
(viii) a statement of the boards, councils, committees and other bodies consisting of two or more persons constituted as its part or for the purpose of its advise, and as to whether meetings of those boards, councils, committees and other bodies are open to the public, or the minutes of such meetings are accessible for public.
Constitution of Boards/Councils/Committees is as per MoA, Rules and Bye-Laws.
Attendance of non-members is at the discretion of Chairman of body concerned.
Minutes of the meetings of such bodies are not generally open/ accessible to public.
Activities are notified through web site, annual reports etc.
(ix) a directory of its officers and employees;
Directory of members (File Type: PDF, File Size: 2.56MB, Date: 25/10/2021) with contact details.
(x) the monthly remuneration received by each of its officers and employees, including the system of compensation as provided in its regulations;
Click Here to View the List (File Type: PDF, File Size: 2.56MB, Date: 25/10/2021)
Other allowances/benefits are as per Staff Rules
xi) the budget allocated to each of its agency, indicating the particulars of all plans, proposed expenditures and reports on disbursements made;
(xii) the manner of execution of subsidy programmes, including the amounts allocated and the details of beneficiaries of such programmes;
Budget is approved by Council, Grants are released by Govt of India.
Financial info for last 5 years.
(xiii) particulars of concessions, permits or authorizations granted by it;
Not Applicable
(xiv) details in respect of the information, available to or held by it, reduced in an electronic form;
Web site is periodically updated.
(xv) the particulars of facilities available to citizens for obtaining information, including the working hours of a library or reading room, if maintained for public use.
Library is not open to public
C-DAC's Citizen / Client Charter
About C-DAC
(xvi) the names, designations and other particulars of the Public Information Officers.
CPIO and First Appellate Authority's Contact Details
(xvii) such other information as may be prescribed;
and thereafter update these publications within such intervals in each year as may be prescribed.
Will be followed as and when applicable
publish all relevant facts while formulating important policies or announcing the decisions which affect public;
Will be followed as and when applicable
(d)
provide reasons for its administrative or quasi judicial decisions to affected persons;
Will be followed as and when applicable
(e)
before initiating any project, or formulating any policy, scheme, programme or law, publish or communicate to the public in general or to the persons likely to be affected thereby in particular, the facts available to it or to which it has reasonable access which in its opinion should be known to them in the best interest of natural justice and promotion of democratic principles.
Will be followed as and when applicable
header
