#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=gridhra
GRIDHRA
Gridhra is a web based debugger and visualization tool for parallel applications on the Grid.
Designed specifically to meet the scalability and heterogeneity concerns in a grid, this tool offers a unified interface for performing both correctness and performance debugging of grid-enabled parallel applications.
Deployed as a web tool, Gridhra frees the user from the hassles of remote debugging and performance visualization of such applications.
With a feature-rich graphical user interface, Gridhra masks all the complexities involved in debugging distributed applications.
Debugger Features
Caters to the heterogeneity of the resources on the grid
Offers a rich GUI wizard for masking all the intricacies involved in generating the job description and submitting it.
Supports Source Level Debugging of MPICH-G2 applications.
Supports logical grouping of processes for issuing debugging commands collectively.
Visualizer Features
Provides a visual depiction of the application flow, in coherence with the source code.
Offers a comprehensive, visual depiction of the Call Graph sequence of the application, along with the time spent in each routine.
Provides a Time Line representation of the communication events in the application.
Provides communication -computation breakup, both process-wise and application-wise.
Highlights the frequently used calls and time spent in each of them.
Future Enhancements Planned
Debugging and visualization of FORTRAN MPI Applications
Debugging and profiling of Serial Applications written in C and FORTRAN
Debugging session from first executable statement in both serial and parallel programs developed using FORTRAN and C.
Detection of Deadlocks in programs, arising from improper use of MPI calls.
(FORTRAN and C
Availability
Supported Environment
IBM AIX, Solaris and Linux Clusters individually or collectively forming the Grid, with GLOBUS Toolkit as the middleware, MPICH-G2
User Interfaces
Supported Languages
Prerequisite Softwares
Java Plugin for the browser
header
