#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_CAE-TS
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Technical Specialist
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Name of the Post
CAE (8 years and above)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer – Technical Specialist (Performance)
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune / Delhi
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech./ME/ M. Tech in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication / Electrical & Electronics / Electrical
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience.
For - BE / B. Tech /ME/ M. Tech/ MCA / Post Graduate Degree in Science or in relevant discipline- 8 Years and above relevant work experience
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Skill Set
Extensive experience of Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration testing, Web Application security Solid understanding of OWASP, secure coding and security testing
Strong understanding of OWASP top 10.
Understanding of ISO 27001 from a software perspective Strong experience in auditing companies and systems for compliance to OWASP, ISO 27001
Experience in automated web application vulnerability scanners like Burp Suite, HP web inspects OWASP ZAP etc.
Strong technical skills to understand software systems and vulnerabilities at API level, database level, network level, OS level, application level etc.
Applied knowledge of encryption technologies and standards.
Ability to discuss and negotiate with customers about on security issues in these areas.
Knowledge of standard Penetration tests at OS, Network, Database level etc. Education Educated to degree level or better
Provides technical guidance to Software Engineers by means of coaching and mentorship throughout E2E software development, maintenance and lifecycle to achieve project goals to the required level of quality.
Promotes team engagement, empowerment and motivation.
Understand and derive complexity based estimations (User Story Points) and provides input to the Software Engineering Manager for estimates, resource needs, milestones and risks.
Per account methodologies defines work breakdown structure, plans and leads task execution by assigning software engineers to tasks, ensuring effective delegation, monitoring tasks, identifying risks and handling mitigation and escalations, mastering and executing Scrum ceremonies and empower the scrum members and enables cross functional capabilities
Provides hands-on technical and functional input to design, maintenance, build, integration and testing of complex software components according to functional and technical design specifications.
Reviews and provides feedback and suggests solutions, including operability perspective.
Identifies areas for automation.
Follows Amdocs software engineering standards, applicable software development methodologies and release processes.
Performs code reviews and participates in test reviews.
Analyzes and provides input for the requirements and provides impact assessment for new features or bug fixes.
Represents/leads discussions related to products/applications/modules/team (for example, leads technical design reviews).
Builds relationships with internal customers/stakeholders.
Represent the team with stakeholders.
Enforces quality processes (such as performing technical root cause analysis and outlining corrective action for given problems), measures them and takes corrective actions in case of variances.
Ensures all the project agreed deliverables are completed to the required level of quality.
Collaborates and adds value through participation in peer code reviews, provides comments and suggestions, and works with cross-functional teams to achieve goals.
People Management - Structures the team’s work in a way that is best-suited to the product/service development and maximize efficiency.
Coaches and empowers the team.
Fosters an environment that encourages team work based on motivation and inspiration.
Proposed Job Profile
Manage the day-to-day activities of projects.
Activities include: identify, recruit and build task order project teams; ensure SI’s Evaluation Quality, Use, and Impact (EQUI) process, support teams technically and managerially; ensure high quality deliverables to the client.
Establish, monitor, and revise work plans and budgets for selected projects and support contract reporting requirements.
Participate in technical tasks and in the development and delivery of client products, including analyses, reports and related work products.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, July 05, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
