#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_ftp_mca_noida
MCA
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Education and Training
Formal Training Programmes
Admission Procedure for MCA Programme (Session 2021-2022)
The Admission Brochures and other related details in this regard are available on the University website www.ipu.ac.in
THE LAST DATE OF MANDATORY ONLINE REGISTRATION IS 15TH JULY 2021
University Notice:
Click here to download (File Format: PDF, File Size: 204 KB , Date: 06/10/2021)
Fee structure:
Click here to download (File Format: PDF, File Size: 439 KB , Date: 25/06/2021)
MCA at CDAC, Noida is AICTE approved and affiliated to Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), Delhi.
CDAC, Noida is running MCA programme since 2000.
Intake is 60 students per year.
MCA is a 3 year Post Graduate Program in Computer Applications that aims to provide strong technical skill set and domain knowledge to develop application programs.
The course content of the Program are divided into six semesters such that
1st year is devoted to Basic concepts in Computer Applications.
2nd year concentrates on higher level concepts in Computer Applications.
3rd year is devoted to Specialization and Industrial Project.
The teaching & learning methodologies follow a rigorous regime involving long hours of work and challenging assignments.
Curriculum delivery is affected through group and self learning seminars, conferences, case studies, live projects with industry, guest lectures and panel discussions with CEOS and professionals from the industry.
The system of assessment is based on continuous evaluation through tests, surprise quizzes, home assignments, laboratory work, industry projects, presentations etc.
Entrance test is held for admission in MCA programmes.
Availability of forms and date of entrance examination are notified in national newspapers.
Admission in MCA programme will be based on the rank scored in entrance exam (CET exam) .
The no of seats available are 60.
Eligibility
Bachelor's degree of a recognized University in any discipline with at least 50% marks in aggregate and must also have passed in Mathematics and English at least at the Senior School Certificate Examination (Class XII) of the CBSE or any other Examination recognized as equivalent Applications (MCA) thereto.
OR
BCA/BIT/BIS of a recognized University of at least three years duration with at least 50% marks in aggregate.
OR
Bachelor's Degree in Engineering or Technology or a qualification recognized as equivalent thereto with at least 50% marks in aggregate.
The procedure for admission in this course is given below:
See the advertisement in the month of Jan/Feb on GGSIP University www.ipu.ac.in
Candidates have to apply online.
Submit the online application form; please note that once you submit application form, you will not be able to change any details in the form once it is locked.
A written test CET is conducted.
The University will prepare a list of qualified candidates in order of merit based on the marks obtained by the candidates in the said Tests.
The result of Common Entrance Tests will be displayed on the University's Website (www.ipu.ac.in).
The University will declare inter-se-ranks for qualified candidates only.
Qualified candidates have to participate in counselling.
The counselling schedule is uploaded on IPU website.
The details are given in admission brochure.
After admission the student has to join the institute where he/she has taken the admission with admission receipt, 5 Passport size latest color photograph and original certificated and mark sheets.
Financial Assistance/Scholarships
Scholarships are provided for reserved category students by various government agencies.
Laboratory Facilities
The state of art laboratory equipped with latest systems and tools is available for MCA Students on one system per student basis.
All systems are connected through LAN.
Library
The Library has a collection of over 21161 publications which include books, bound volumes of journals, thesis/dissertations, rare books, reports, government documents.
The Library has subscription of 74 periodicals/journals.
The books are issued to the students for the maximum for 15 days except reference book, Data books, Directories, Hand books, Reports, Standards.
The books, which are not available in the library, are procured on the request of members.
The reprographic facility is available for all members and students.
IEEE and ACM online access of Journals and Conference Proceedings are also available inside the institute.
More Details
Hostel
C-DAC, Noida has its own hostel inside the campus at B-30, Sector 62, Noida.
There are two separate but interconnected wings for boys and girls each having 50 twin sharing spacious rooms with air - conditioned dining hall and other modern amenities to ensure comfortable stay of the students.
Placement
CDAC provides a strong base for placement and industrial training requirement of the program.
All the students are assigned the projects either in CDAC or other companies on full time basis as per course requirement, in their 6th semester.
Further the work culture of the organization provides a good environment to students to interact and get first hand information for working on live projects during their class room teaching too.
Companies / Institutes where students are placed:
Indus Valley Partners, Capital IQ, Intelligrape, Infogain, Grapecity, OSScubes, Thought works, NEC HCL, Innoexcel, C-DAC, Synopsys, Sopra, TechMahindra , HCL , TCS, Cvent, Leeway Hertz, NIIT Technologies, Motherson Sumi Infotech, Safenet Infotech, Xerox, Appstudios, Snap On, Fidelity , 3G Pillar Group, Nagarro, Agnisys, Tech Ahead.
MCA Course Scheme
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 130 KB, Date: 29/8/2014)
Faculty Details
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 297 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
Awards & Honors of Students
Mr Duke Arora,  secured 2nd position in SANKALAN 2014 event "Select * from Brain", conducted by Delhi University Computer Science Society, on March 8 and 9, 2014.
Ms Priyanka Khatri, secured 1st position in CSI NSC 2014, conducted by BVICAM, New Delhi, on March 7-8, 2014.
Mr Duke Arora,  secured 1st position in Tremors 14.0 event "Who can C?", conducted by Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women.
Ms Chhavi Mathur, secured 1st position in Tremors 14.0 event "Inquisitive", conducted by Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women.
Mr Sachin Gulati, secured 1st position in Tremors 14.0 event "Who can C?", conducted by Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women.
Mr Sachin Gulati, secured 2nd position in Coderz Cynosure 2014 conducted by Jagan Institute of Management Studies, Rohini, on March 21-22, 2014.
Mr Sachin Gulati, secured 2nd position in SANKALAN 2014 event "Select * from Brain", Conducted by Delhi University Computer Science Society, on March 8 and 9, 2014.
Mr. Manush L Madan, secured 1st position in CSI NSC 2014, conducted by BVICAM,  New Delhi, on March 7-8, 2014.
Mr HariOm Shukla, secured 1st position in V Connect 2014 event "Switch and Code", conducted by Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies, New Delhi.
Mr Sachin Gulati,  secured 1st position in V Connect 2014 event "Switch and Code", conducted by Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies, New Delhi.
For Further Details Please Contact:
NOES Division
Academic Block , B-30, Institution Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-2210800 Ext-92
email: kritisaroha [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Post Graduate Diploma Programmes
Faculty Development Programmes
Corporate Training Programmes
Education Technologies
Other Initiatives
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Thursday, June 10, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
bullet
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
