#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=job_CAE-UI-UX
UI/UX Expert
Name of Post
CAE - II (11 years and above experience )
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - UI/UX Expert
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech.
in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication/Electrical/ Electrical & Electronics
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience
For - BE/ B. Tech / MCA/First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline - 11 years and above
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Desired Skill Sets
Indicative skills and experience required:
Required Skill set
Hands-on experience in UI/UX Design and development to work with multiple client (multiple stakeholders by diagnosing business and user needs).
Create and present compelling design concepts as part of UI/UX strategy.
Present design decisions to the stakeholders that are backed up by strong experience design principles and rationale.
Experience designing for various devices and systems (mobile, handheld, Laptop/Desktop, display systems)
Experience writing JavaScript (ES6, jQuery, Web APIs)
Conduct user research and evaluate user feedback
Establish and promote design guidelines, best practices and standards
Be organized and show excellent time management skills and be highly detail oriented.
Ability to manage their own time in an efficient manner while receiving strategic and tactical direction from project stakeholders.
Manage communication at all levels and be responsible for project deliverables with quality and on time.
Develop and present documentation, user flows, annotated wireframes, and interactive prototypes
Ensure that the team is designing the best user experience; design website custom design.
Effectively code the interface while taking care of all the details that changes a nice Sketch design in an incredible user experience style.
Proposed Job Profile
Primary role is to design overall design patterns for websites, web applications and mobile applications including overall design framework, forms, screens, templates and all other requirements of an application user interface.
Creating and planning a user journey for websites, web applications and mobile applications.
Strong knowledge of general design principles (layouts, colour, font, proportion, etc.).
Conceptual ideation and art direction.
Must absolutely be in sync with recent design standards and trends.
Knowledge and experience of user-centric design approaches and best practices.
Proven UI experience & Demonstrable UI design skills and development with a strong portfolio in E-Commerce Domain/Websites (B2C and B2B)
Solid experience in creating wireframes, storyboards, user flows, process flows and site maps
Proficiency in Photoshop, Illustrator or other visual design and wire-framing tools
Excellent visual design skills with sensitivity to user-system interaction
Ability to solve problems creatively and effectively Up to date with the latest UI trends, techniques, and technologies
Experience in UI/UX design and developing on any of the e-Commerce platforms such as (Drupal, WordPress, Magento, Shopify)
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Back to previous page
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
header
