#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mlc_gist_lrc
Language Resource Centre
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Multilingual Computing
Gist
C-DAC GIST, are pioneers in the field of language processing in India and have been operating successfully over 2 decades.
Our subtitling, translation and localization, services have been time tested and precision tuned by experts in this field.
Now having successfully completed 1.5 lakh hours in subtitling and more than 1 crore words in translation / localization we look forward to expand our services manifold.
We intend to provide a one-stop shop for all your translation/localization needs.
Some of the services we provide are:
Subtitling Services
Fused and Electronic Subtitling
Multilingual translation and data digitization
Credit Titling
We have a team of competent, skilled and dedicated translators in all Languages.
These also include highly qualified professionals equipped with domain specific knowledge and expertise.
We also specialize in localization of software with desired output formats and backed with professional tech support.
Send us a sample (about 50 words for translation/localization) and we will be happy to provide our services with satisfaction guaranteed.
Available Languages
Proven track record with expertise in the following languages :
Indian Languages :
Hindi, Urdu, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Maithili, Marathi, Punjabi, Gujrati, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Bodo, Dogri, Manipuri, Nepali, Konkani, Sanskrit, Santali, Bengali, Assamese and Oriya.
Foreign Languages :
French, German, Italian, Korean, Chinese, Japanese, Thai, Russian, Spanish, Arabic, Sinhalese, Vietnamese.
Clientele :
Some of our esteemed customers include Doordarshan, ETV, B4U, Zee, Prasad DVD, Sony, Glocal Media, Maersk Shipping, Cummins, Kirloskar, Tatas, HEMRL, Words India, CQA etc.
Domains :
Technical, Legal, Medical, Scientific, Engineering, Business, Marketing, Computer and many more.
Multilingual Services from C-DAC :
Multilingual translation, localization, Subtitling & Authoring under one roof
Globalization has broken the national as well as international boundaries with inevitable need for multilingual information.
This generates huge requirement for language translation of various websites, softwares, technical manuals, advertisements, study materials etc. And to cater to this we started our Linguistic Research Centre.
Some of our services are listed below :
Multilingual development involves adapting the content along with its context.
Our aim is to provide context based translations and not just word-to-word translations.
The following example will highlight it.
The translations are also customized based on specific requirement from the customer.
Localization Services
Localization is far more than just text translation.
It is creating and adapting content for a specific grade, region, culture, or pedagogy.
It involves maintaining and managing context to be appropriately presented to a specific target audience.
To put it simply, one should feel that the content is in native language rather than one translated from English.
We at C-DAC take utmost care of this factor.
New words in native language are introduced considering the requirement of the native speakers who are invariably involved in every step of our translation/localization process.
DVD Subtitling
DVD subtitling in Indian and foreign languages.
Conversion of subtitling files to DVD compatible format.
Subtitles with different background and foreground colors
Subtitles with different fonts and font sizes, edges and edge colors.
Supports PAL and NTSC formats.
Supports Unicode fonts
Contact us:
Tel : 020-25503488/467
E-mail :
Sales related information
E-mail :
Support related information
E-mail :
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
