#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_pace_dcrs
Diploma Courses
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Education and Training
PACE
DIPLOMA IN E-COMMERCE
Course code: DECom
Duration (Part Time): 6 months
Total Hours: 144
Course Benefits: This course provides comprehensive training in E-Commerce right from introduction to building an E-Commerce site and imparts an in-depth knowledge of various categories of E-Commerce.
Who Should Attend: College-going, Graduates and Professionals interested in using E-Commerce applications and building E-Commerce sites and those who are keen on pursuing a career in E-Commerce.
COURSE CONTENTS
Introduction
Categories of E-Commerce
Specific Business benefits of
GII and conduction of E-commerce
Digital Signature
Existing business and channels
Evolving into On-line business
E-Service
E-Governance
Network security
Portals
Servers
Building E-Commerce site
DIPLOMA IN COMPUTER MULTILINGUAL PROGRAMMING
Course code: DMCP
Course Benefits: The course helps to cultivate programming skills by imparting in-depth knowledge of Object Oriented Programming techniques.
Who Should Attend: Students with good aptitude and logic, preferably with strong mathematics or engineering background, having an interest to learn the latest Programming Tools used in the Internet and mission critical applications.
C, C++ Programming
JAVA Programming
MS SQL
BOO
Java ( Basic)
DIPLOMA IN OFFICE AUTOMATION & APPLICATION OF GIST
Course code: DMOA
Course Benefits: Get an in-depth training in Office Automation packages and learn to integrate them using GIST technology.
The course also helps to develop programming skills & build a strong foundation on Database Management
Who Should Attend: Those who have completed 12th standard, who can comprehensively use advanced applications on computers.
People who are involved in office administration, document preparation charts, reports, presentations, etc. can attend this course.
MS Word 2013 & XP using ISM
MS Excel 2013 & XP using ISM
MS Power Point 2013 using ISM
Bharateeya Open Office
DIPLOMA IN OFFICE AUTOMATION & FIN.
ACCOUNTING
Course code: DMOA & FA
Total Hours: 160
The course also helps to develop programming skills & build a strong foundation on Database Management and Financial Accounting.
Who Should Attend: Commerce students and professionals interested in using advanced applications on computers.
People who are involved in office administration, document preparation, such as charts, reports, presentations, etc. can attend this course.
Windows OS
Advanced Usage of ISM
Importance and advantages of Office 2013
TALLY ERP 9
DIPLOMA IN COMPUTER MULTILINGUAL APPLICATIONS
Course code: DMCA
Total Hours: 144
Course Benefits: The course provides comprehensive hands-on training on Project based Client-Server Technologies.
Throughout the course, Real Time Project based environment is provided so that students understand Software Development Life Cycles and implement the relevant technologies.
Who Should Attend: Advanced computer literates who have decided to make a career in Software Development.
VB.Net
DIPLOMA IN GRAPHICS & MULTILINGUAL DESKTOP PUBLISHING
Course code: DGMDP
Course Benefits: This course helps to understand the software packages (multi-lingual) used in documentation, graphics, superlative designs, images, special effects, modifications to scanned images and printing technology.
Provides excellent resource to understand the best methods of usage of Indian Language scripts in Desk Top Publishing.
Who Should Attend: Those interested in making a career in Desktop Publishing or setting up their own DTP business advertising and Mass Media who can tap feature rich packages like Corel Draw and Adobe Photoshop etc., (world's best Design and Image Editing software).
It gives an in-depth knowledge of Page Setting, Brochure Creation and Multilingual Publishing by using GIST Technology.
Corel Photo Paint
Adobe PageMaker
Opacity of a layer
Editing a Layer Mask
Bharateeya Open Office
ISM-Soft
An introduction to Indian Language
Keyboard Driver (ISM-Soft)
Design and Animation - Dream weaver
DIPLOMA IN MULTILINGUAL WEB TECHNOLOGIES & PUBLISHING
Course code: DMWT&P
Course Benefits: Learn to designing of rich & colourful dynamic web sites using the latest technologies and tools, enabling development of interactive and robust programs that harness the power of the Internet.
Who Should Attend: People who wish to create design-rich features and multimedia content for Internet.
People in advertising Agencies, Media and Entertainment Industry having inherent artistic skills will vastly benefit by utilizing Photo-editing and Authoring tools for WEB content creation and publishing.
JAVA Script
ASP.Net
Concept of Web Server
Macromedia Dream weaver
Flash
GIF Animator
iplugin
XML
HTML / DHTML
Diploma in Multilingual Computer Operation
Course code: DMCO
Total Hours: 120
Course Benefits: This course provides knowledge about various operating systems including the open source OS like BOSS linux that supports all Indian languages.
This course enables to gain operational skills in MS office integrating the use of GIST technology and Open Office in Indian languages on windows & linux platform.
Who Should Attend: Graduates or Diploma of any discipline.
Computer Basics and Organization
Intro to OS & FOSS, Windows, BoSS etc
Networking, Internet and E-Mail,
Typing Practice, BOO
MS Office 2013 with ISM, E-Service & E-Governance
Introduction to Network, Cyber Security
DIPLOMA IN JAVA
Course code: DJAVA
Course Benefits: From introduction to Java this course helps to cultivate programming skills in Java by imparting in-depth knowledge of Object Oriented Programming and the usage of various Java tools and products.
Who Should Attend: Those who have knowledge of programming on computers and would like to advance their career with Java.
People with good aptitude and logic, preferably with mathematics or engineering background.
OOPS
Programming in Java
OOPS in Java
Exception handling exception
Applets
Servlets
JDK
AWT components
Threads
Streams
Networking with TCP/IP
DIPLOMA IN HARDWARE & NETWORKING
Course code: DHN
Duration (Part Time): 8 months
Total Hours: 320
Course Benefits: This course educates the participants with hardware parts of the computer and networking system..
Apart from providing knowledge on peripherals parts of the computer, the course study helps the candidates to gain knowledge on the framework of different layers of computer communication.
The course also covers details regarding architecture and topology of different networks used in computers.
SEM I- Basic Electronics, Hardware Maintenance, Trouble Shooting, Software Installation, Internet
SEM2 - Networking, Group Networking, Linux Networking, Laptop, Wireless networking
DIPLOMA IN MULTILINGUAL MULTIMEDIA
Course code: DMM
Total Hours: 230
Course Benefit: The course provides a comprehensive training to students on all basic aspects of Graphics Design, Image Editing, Web Design, animation, special effects etc. This training enables the students in Graphic designing, Web designing and so on.
Who should Attend: Those who have inherent artistic skill and wish to pursue career in Graphics and designing, with or without any formal education.
Concept of Graphics
Web Design and Publishing
2D Animation
Basics of Audio Editing
Video Streaming and Editing.
Application used
Adobe Indesign
Swish Max
Sound Forge
Pinnacle
Diploma in Digital Marketing
Course code: DDM
Digital marketing course can benefits any people who want get a job in marketing, who want to promote their business, or who want to do consultants business.
Who should attend?
Marketing professional
Web Marketers
Entrepreneurs or affiliate marketers
Technical and Software Professionals
Marketing Executive
Business Development Professional
Chief Marketing Office
Chief Executive Office
Director - Sales & Marketing
Sales & Marketing Professional from any Industries
Course contents:
Introduction to Digital Marketing
Search Engine Optimization
Fundamentals of Search
Advanced Search Engine Marketing
Advanced Digital Display Marketing (Paid Advertising)
Social Media Marketing
Mobile Marketing
Email Marketing
Digital Analytics
Internship Program in Android
Course duration: 6 months or 144 hours
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
