#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mlc_gist_gclass
Gclass : Gist Cross Language Search Plug-ins Suite
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Multilingual Computing
Why Indian language search plug-ins ?
Gclass stands for Gist Cross Language Search Plug-ins Suite.
Indian Languages are unique in their structure and are quite complex in nature.
In case you want an insight into the structural complexity of Indian Languages, click on this link: http://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mlc_gist_set.
Because of this intrinsic difficulty normal search methodology is inappropriate for Indian Languages and searching demands special tool.
Building a search application considering these complexities thus becomes herculean task.
Gclass comes to aid and provides a suite of plug-ins that deals with exactly these difficulties and provide solutions.
Plug-Ins available with GClass :
1. Alternate Spelling :
Indian languages abound in alternate spellings.
Thus there are two ways to spell word Hindi viz “हिंदी” and “हिन्दी”.
The search on one form should provide the results with other form as well.
This plug-in makes the use of rule governed homophonic engine to provide the result in the said manner.
When the entered query have spelling variant, it gives the other variants as suggestions allowing the user to search for a specific one or all.
2. Mis-spelling :
Like all languages, Indian languages also have their share of misspelled words.
In Indian language some misspelled words are more prominently in use than their grammatically correct counter part.
For example the word “जांच” is incorrect but is used more often than its correctly spelled form “जाँच”.
This plug-in allows the user to cater the search results that contains the mis spelled form of the entered word as well.
It also allows the user to filter the search through spell checker and suggest to user the correct spelling.
3. Synonyms:
Because of their historical antecedents Indian languages are rich in vocabulary, with more than one synonym for a particular word.
To ensure that synonums are trapped in the search net, the synonym suite provide the most common synonymic equivalents of the word thereby enriching the search capabilities.
Look for भाषा and also see the most common synonyms for language:
4. Multi Lingual Lookup:
This plug-in allows the user to enter query in English and get the search result in desired language.
So it is a boon for people who know English well but do not know Hindi equivalent of the search word.
Yet another form of the plug-in transliterates on the fly search result from any language to any other language thereby enabling the user to get the results in desired language
5. Lemmatiser:
Intra word grammar is one of the major attribute of Indian Languages and so the user should be given the results which include the linguistic variants including suffixes of searched terms, like “चुने” , ”चुनकर”, ”चुनिये” etc.
6. Natural Query System :
Search engines should provide a natural query system which allows the user to query the web and get an answer to his/her query.
Instead of getting a million answers to a simple query such as the price of Gold today, our Natural Query System plug-in coupled with the spell checker and cross lingual module, provides a correct answer to the query.
Currently available in Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bangla, Malayalam and Urdu, other languages are targeted..
The plug-ins are equipped with high quality apparatus like language detector, homophone engine, Spell checker, Lemmatiser and dictionaries as well.
With Iplugin as inputting mechanism this search engine works with IE 6 with few language specific cab files download at client end.
It also downloads EOTs at client end eliminating the need of specific font requirement with IE.
Tools and Technologies used :
Servlet: Forms the query handler and response generator
JSP: Provides the ultimate user experience
Iplugin: Provides Indian Language Inputting mechanism.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
