#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot1236
C-DAC’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service to be rolled out in 1.5 Lakh HWCs
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
C-DAC’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service to be rolled out in 1.5 Lakh HWCs
In the News
C-DAC’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service to be rolled out in 1.5 Lakh HWCs
Express Computer
September 21, 2020
C-DAC’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service to be rolled out in 1.5 Lakh Health & Wellness Centers (HWCs) under Ayushman Bharat programme
Public health is a state subject.
Under the National Health Mission (NHM), support is being provided to States/UTs to strengthen their healthcare systems including Tele-consultation services based on requirements posed by the States in their Programme Implementation Plans (PIPs).
eSanjeevani Telemedicine solution developed by C-DAC-Mohali is being rolled out under Ayushman Bharat – Health & Wellness Centres program.
Under Ayushman Bharat, 1.5 lakh Sub Health Centres (SHCs) and rural and urban Primary Health Centres (PHCs) across the country are being transformed by December 2022 as Health and Wellness Centres (AB-HWCs) with an aim to provide Comprehensive Primary Health Care (CPHC) that includes preventive and health promotion at the community level with continuum of care.
eSanjeevani has been implemented at around 3000 HWCs.
For providing technical assistance to States, NHM had issued ‘Guidelines for Tele-Medicine Services in Ayushman Bharat – Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs)’ providing details of implementation model, IT infrastructure required at hubs & spokes, human resource required for conducting telemedicine etc. to States.
Accordingly States/UTs are submitting proposals seeking financial support under NHM.
C-DAC has been providing regular technical assistance to States for training, handholding and for ensuring uninterrupted operations of the services.
The list of Hospitals/Health Centers connected through telemedicine in country is available on ministry website at https://main.mohfw.gov.in/node/5158 .
The eSanjeevani application has been modelled on EHR guidelines issued by MoHFW, GoI.
The application is compatible with advance technologies like Internet-of-Things (IoT) and bluetooth enabled diagnostic devices.
The whole architecture of eSanjeevani is based on the agile framework and utilizes cloud services for hosting.
eSanjeevani is being continuously upgraded to be compatible with advanced telemedicine tools for betterment of services.
The modalities regarding integration of Tel-cardiology and Tele-radiology services are being examined in consultation with States and C-DAC.
Telemedicine implementation at Health & Wellness Centers (spokes) linked with doctors (Hubs) has helped to address the shortage of doctors and other healthcare professionals, as telemedicine enables the access of specialist services from hubs to patient from nearby HWC through eSanjeevani.
However, Govt. of India / Board of Governors in supersession of Medical Council of India issued ‘Telemedicine Practice Guidelines’ in March 2020.
eSanjeevani telemedicine service is being rolled out in 1.5 Lakh Health & Wellness Centers (HWCs) under Ayushman Bharat programme in all States/UTs.
States are being supported under NHM for IT initiatives based on the requirement posed by States in PIP.
The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, September 22, 2020
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
