#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pe_vlsi_noida_23Nov17
Transfer of Technology of FPGA Board
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Professional Electronics, VLSI and Embedded Systems
C-DAC Noida would like to invite competent industrial partners for commercialization of the Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) board through transfer of technology.
The board has been developed under the project funded by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).
Brief about the Institution
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is a premier R&D organization of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) mandated to carry out R&D in Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics (ICT&E) and associated areas.
Although C-DAC was established with a clear mandate of R&D in high performance computing in 1988, over the last three decades, it has diversified into several other areas of ICT to respond to the needs of the society.
With the zeal to convert its R&D outcomes into usable technologies, it is today a significant IT player with many innovative products and solutions.
In addition, C-DAC has played a key role in IT education to fulfill the higher ICT education requirements of the country's IT industry.
Brief description about the product/technology/prototype to be transferred
Key features of the "FPGA Board"
The developed platform is an easy to use low-cost FPGA development board featuring Xilinx Spartan-6 FPGA.
It is specially designed for facilitating the students and faculty to experiment with the concepts of system design using FPGAs.
The board offers a rich set of features that make it suitable for use in the following areas:
Laboratory for undergraduate courses
Variety of design projects,
Development of sophisticated digital systems.
By default the board is powered from a +5V supply from USB cable.
Built around a Xilinx Spartan-6 FPGA the board provides, a complete ready-to-use hardware suitable for hosting circuits ranging from basic logic devices to complex controllers.
A large collection of on-board I/O devices/interfaces and all required FPGA support circuits are included, so countless designs can be created without the need of any other components.
The design can be controlled and configured through PC using high speed USB interface provided on the board.
The board is designed to work with the free ISE WebPack software from Xilinx.
Main Features
The Spartan 6 LX4 is optimized for high performance logic and offers:
600 slices, each containing four LUTs and eight Flip Flops
216 Kb fast Block RAM
Two CMTs (two DCMs and one PLL)
8 DSP48A1 slices
SPI Flash ROM that stores FPGA configuration indefinitely
25 MHz oscillator frequency
USB cable for providing power and programming interface
8 LEDs, 4 Push buttons, 12 slide switches
4 digit seven segment display
8 bit VGA display
UART communication pins
30 pin expansion connectors
Key Benefits of the "FPGA Board"
Low Cost
Simple hardware
User friendly programmer
Onboard peripherals to perform digital design experiments
30 pin expansion connectors for external digital I/O interface
Students can perform various experiments ranging from combinational to sequential circuits
Instructional material with step by step programming for a set of experiments is provided online
Free access to e-learning content
Scope of Work
C-DAC intends to provide its FPGA solution to interested companies/vendors with good experience in development & deployment of PCB electronic boards.
C-DAC, as a part of its R&D initiative and responsibility of supporting the Electronics industry is eager to proliferate this product in the market in collaboration with suitable industry partners.
Extent of Work
Expressions of Interest (EoI) are invited from interested vendors engaged in electronics equipment manufactures domain for the Transfer of Technology of FPGA Board.
Documentation
C-DAC will provide its documentation for all subsystem as per scope of work.
Facility Available at C-DAC
C-DAC NOIDA will give orientation training about the functionality of FPGA Board through elementary course.
Expression of Interest
C-DAC invites Expression of Interest bids in the format given in Annexure- I (Part A) of the EoI document.
Processing Fees
Processing fee of Rs. Ten Thousand only (Rs 10000/-) must be submitted, by Demand Draft / Pay Order of any Scheduled Bank drawn in favor of C-DAC NOIDA.
No Bank Guarantee towards Processing Fees will be acceptable.
Processing Fees is non-refundable.
Bids received without processing will be rejected straightway.
Bid Submission
Interested parties can submit the Bid latest by 18th Dec 2017, 5 PM.
Please refer to point no. 6.4 & 6.5 of EoI document to get the detail procedure for bid submission to C-DAC Noida.
Pre-bid Meeting/ Clarifications
A Pre-bid meeting of all the Bidders will be convened as follows:
Date of pre-bid Meeting: 4th Dec, 2017
Timing of pre-bid Meeting: 10:30 a.m.
Venue:Conference Hall, Academic Block, C-DAC, B-30, Sector - 62 NOIDA- 201309
Parties interested to attend pre-bid meeting may please Register here
For any clarifications on the Expression of Interest document or application process please contact
Mr. Ravi Shankar Rai
Email: ravishankarrai [at] cdac [dot] in
Mobile No:9968836506
Dr. Sunita Prasad
Email: sunitaprasad [at] cdac [dot] in
Mobile No:9810827982
The detailed EoI Document and Annexure-1 (A & B) can be accessed through the following link:
Expression of Interest (EoI) Document  (File Format: PDF, File Size: 931 KB , Date: 23/11/2017)
Annexure 1A  (File Format: PDF, File Size: 87 KB , Date: 23/11/2017)
Annexure 1B  (File Format: PDF, File Size: 153 KB , Date: 23/11/2017)
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Professional Electronics VLSI & Embedded Systems
Agriculture and Environment Electronics
Strategic Electronics Systems
Smart Grid Security
Augmented Reality (AR)
Smart Card Technologies
High Speed Networking
Medical Electronics
Ubiquitous Computing
Internet of Things IOT
Power Electronics
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Friday, June 11, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
bullet
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
