#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_acts_BiharCourseOverview
Free Coaching Scheme for State of Bihar
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Education and Training
ACTS
ACTS Home
C-CAT Result
Overview
Courses
Schedule
Centers
Admission Process
C-CAT rank for PG Diploma in Advanced Computing (PG-DAC) September 2021 for SC, ST, and OBC candidates in Bihar under project of DIT, Bihar is now declared.
Overview of PG-DAC Course
Department of Information Technology, Government of Bihar in association with Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) A Scientific Society of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) Government of India has taken a initiative for conducting PG Diploma in Advanced Computing (PG-DAC) and Certificate courses for the candidates from SC, ST & OBC having domicile in the State of Bihar.
Course Duration, Eligibility
Course Duration:
Course is of 7 months duration (900 hours)
Eligibility:
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation, OR
MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics with Mathematics in 10+2, OR
Graduate in any discipline of Engineering, OR
Post Graduate Degree in Physics / Mathematics / Statistics, OR
MCA, MCM, OR
Post Graduate Degree in Management with graduation in IT / Computer Science/ Applications.
The candidates must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in their qualifying examination.
Mandatory Requirements:
Domicile: Candidate shall belong to the SC, ST & OBC having domicile certificate of Bihar state.
Family Income: The family income of the candidate should not exceed INR 4,50,000/- per annum.
Courses Highlights
Well established courses with excellent placement records
30-weeks (Approx) full-time courses with 900 hours' theory/lab/project.
6 hours per day theory + lab sessions on 6 days a week in most centres.
Continuous lab and internal assessments during the course, and
Centralised course-end theory exams.
Expert faculty from C-DAC and ICT industry with widespread domain knowledge.
Courses designed and developed in consultation with the domain experts in C-DAC, academia and ICT industry.
Syllabus regularly updated with the latest trends in the ICT industry
Tutorials, hands-on and projects relevant to the standards of the ICT industry
Well equipped computer labs with internet that can be accessed round the clock in many centres
Training on aptitude, general English, effective communication, and interview skills.
Extensive placement orientation and region-wise common campus placements with excellent participation from top ICT companies.
C-DAC’s Common Admission Test (C-CAT)
Admissions to all PG Diploma courses of C-DAC are done through C-DAC's computerised Common Admission Test (C-CAT).
Candidates have to apply for C-CAT online at www.cdac.in or acts.cdac.in.   Every section in C-CAT will have 50 objective-type questions.
Each question will have four choices as possible answers of which only one will be correct.
There will be +3 (plus three) marks for each correct answer, -1 (minus one) for each wrong answer, and 0 (zero) marks for each un-attempted question.
The maximum marks a candidate can obtain in any one section of C-CAT is 150.
C-CAT Syllabus
TEST PAPER
TOPICS
DURATION
Section A
English, Quantitative Aptitude, Reasoning
1 hour
Section B
Computer Fundamentals, C Programming, Data Structures, Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Operating Systems
Reference books for the various topics in C-CAT
SECTION
REFERENCE BOOK
Any High School Grammar Book (e.g. Wren & Martin)
Quantitative Aptitude & Reasoning
Quantitative Aptitude Fully Solved (R. S. Aggrawal) Quantitative Aptitude (M Tyara) Barron’s New GRE 2015
Foundations of Computing (Pradeep Sinha & Priti Sinha)
C Programming Language (Kernighan & Ritchie) Let Us C (Yashavant Kanetkar)
Data Structures Through C in Depth (S. K. Srivastava)
Operating System Principles (Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne)
OOP Concepts
Test Your C ++ Skills (Yashavant Kanetkar)
C-CAT Schedule
C-CAT for admission to the September 2021 batch of PG Diploma courses will be held in computerized mode physically at C-DAC’s test centers on August 8, 2021.
The tentative schedule for different test papers of C-CAT is given below.
The exact schedule of C-CAT will be communicated to the candidates through the Admit Card.
C-CAT Dates
Test Paper
Morning Slot Timings
Afternoon Slot Timings
8th August 2021
9:30 am – 10:30 am
2:00 pm – 3:00 pm
10:45 am – 11:45 am
3:15 pm – 4:15 pm
Candidates can give the Physical C-CAT from at the Centres.
As per the Admit card alloted centre.
Important Dates
PG-DAC Course:
• Start of the application 29th July 2021
• Last date of Application to the courses 3rd August 2021
• Downloading Admit Cards 7th August 2021
• Common Entrance Test for the applied candidates 7th & 8th August 2021
• Result declaration of CET 20th August 2021
• Document verification and registration 20th September 2021
• Commencement of the courses 21st September 2021
C-CAT admit Card
Candidates can download their admit cards from website during the dates mentioned under Schedule.
No candidate will be permitted to appear for C-CAT without a valid admit card.
The admit card along with a photo identity proof must be presented to the C-CAT officials/invigilators for verification at the time of the test.
The result of the C-CAT will be published in the website.
Advanced Computing Training School (ACTS)
14th floor, Biscomaun Tower,
West Gandhi Maidan,
Patna, Bihar - 800001
Phone No. : 0612-2219021
(All support contact numbers given above are available between 10 am - 1 pm and 2 pm - 5 pm on working days)
Email: infocdacpatna@cdac.in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Friday, May 21, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
