#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=st_egov_bis_manak_ad
e-governance MANAK ONLINE for BIS
ManakOnline for Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) is the National Standards body of India, functioning under the aegis of Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution, Government of India.
BIS has published more than 20000 Indian Standards (IS) and Priced Publications (PP) to ensure the quality of products, more than 400 new standards and 400 amendments are published.
The e-Governance solution brings new revolution in the workflow of BIS.
The web-based system allows the applicants to apply online for Grant of License.
This is a role-based system having the functionality for online scrutiny of application.
This will reduce the paper work and manual effort.
The system is having the feature for the automatic selection of inspection officer and date to reduce biasness.
It provides extensive monitoring, reporting and audit trails facilitated with e-Communication using SMS, emails and efficient query management for applicants.
The applicants applying for multiple licenses will get the concession automatically based on the terms and condition of respective scheme.
This portal contains all the schemes running under BIS.
Other than Grant of License, applicants and BIS users will have the online facility for license renewal, cancellation, suspension and surveillance process.
Individual user can apply as an auditor also in this portal for respective schemes based on the guidelines and qualification.
This portal also generates various MIS reports for the monitoring done by higher management.
The system supports following processes:
Online Application Submission for Grant of License for Product Certification, Hallmarking and Management System Certification (MSCD) and Foreign Manufacture Scheme
Automatic BIS officer selection based on the workload in respective branch and discipline for submitted applications
Automatic scrutiny of application based on checklist
Online Payment option at various stages
Return file option based on product manufacturing
Surveillance process
Inspection plan with tour log of BIS officers
Dynamic mapping of schemes based of BIS officer's rights
Consumer Affairs Department (CAD) module for handling customer grievances
LAB module for testing of product samples
Online provision for renewal of license
Online provision for declaring of Stop Marking and Resumption of Marking during license period
Inclusion, cancellation, suspension of license
The users of the system include:
DG :  All India work Monitoring for Regions and their Branches
DDG:  Scheme wise work monitoring for all India level
DDGR:  Monitoring the work process of their region and has decision making rights based on HOD recommendation
Head of Department/s (HODs):  Has decision-making rights based on the recommendation by other officers.
Dealing Officers (PO):  These are the members who review and scrutinize the application and dealing with licenses.
Inspecting Officers (IO):  These members are responsible of inspection at various stages and give NC's in case of any discrepancies.
Configurator:  is responsible for system configuration, as this is a dynamic application which reacts according to settings done by the configurator.
Administrator: is responsible for providing access rights to all BIS users.
Benefits of the System :
This system reduces the paper work and manual effort.
The system has the feature for the automatic selection of inspection officer and date of inspection to reduce biasness.
The applicants applying for licenses gets the concession automatically based on the terms and condition of respective scheme.
This portal also generates MIS reports, Notifications, Various Charts representation for monitoring by higher management
MANAK online Portal [www.manakonline.in]
For Further Details Please Contact:
e-Governance Division
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
header
