#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_hypack13_mem_alloc_program
hyPACK-2013
About
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Home
contents
Memory Allocators overview
Memory Allocator Progarms
Example 1.1  Write a TBB program to vector vector multiplication using Memory Allocator
Example 1.2   Write a TBB program to Matrix vector multiplication using Memory Allocator
Example 1.3   Write a TBB program to Matrix matrix multiplication using  blockrange2d  directive
using Memory Allocator
Description of Programs Using mmap & Different Memory Allocators
Makefile : To compile the program :
(Download source code : ) Makefile
view source
print
Example 1.1 :   Vector Vector multiplication using  TBB.
( Download source code : )
TbbVecVecScalableMalloc.cpp  (Scalable malloc)
TBB-VEC-VEC-MMAP.zip   (using mmap memory allocator)
TBB-VEC-VEC-MALLOC.zip   (using malloc memory allocator)
Objective
To write a TBB program to compute the vector-vector multiplication with TBB using block_range.
This is an implementation of Vector-Vector multiplication using TBB block_range directive.
A block_range is a template class provided by the library.
It describes a one-dimensional iteration space over type T. parallel_for divides this entire iteration space into subspaces for each processor.
Input
Vector Size and Number Threads.
Output
Time taken for vector-vector computation.
Example 1.2 :   Matrix Vector multiplication using  TBB.
( Download source code :)
TbbMatVecScalableMalloc.cpp(Scalable malloc)
TBB-MAT-VECT-MMAP.zip   (using mmap memory allocator)
TBB-MAT-VECT-MALLOC.zip   (using malloc memory allocator)
Write a programme for performing matrix-vector multiplication using TBB and measure the performance.
In this code we are doing multiplication of matrix ma  and vector  vb  and the resultant vector is stored in vector  vc.
This example illustrates the use of parallel_for which breaks the iteration space into chunks and runs each chunk on a separate thread.
Operator () function processes a chunk given by  parallel_for.
It is assumed that number of columns of the matrix A and size of the vector are same.
Size (nrows=ncols=vecsize) , Number of Threads
Execution time in seconds required for matrix-vector multiplication.
Example 1.3 :   Matrix Matrix multiplication using  TBB blockranged2d directive.
TbbMatMatScalableMalloc.cpp (Scalable malloc)
tbb-mmap-matmat-split.zip   (using mmap memory allocator)
tbb-malloc-matmat-split.zip   (using malloc memory allocator)
Write a TBB program for matrix-matrix multiplication using TBB  blockranged2d  directive and measure the performance.
In this example, we have shown how to use a  blocked_range2d  to specify two dimensional iteration space.
The  blocked_range2d  enables the two outermost loops of the serial version to become parallel loops.The  Parallel_for  recursively splits the  blocked_range2d.
it invokes operator () for each piece.
It is assumed that both matrices size are same.
Number of threads, Size of matrix.
Time taken for matrix-matrix computation.
header
copy to clipboard
?
