#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_pr_prs_rl239
Visit of the Joint Committee of Hon’ble High Court Judges to  C-DAC, Pune for Technical Inputs in draft Electronic Evidence Rules
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Visit of the Joint Committee of Hon’ble High Court Judges to C-DAC, Pune for Technical Inputs in draft Electronic Evidence Rules
Press Releases
March 12, 2018
The Joint committee of Hon'ble High Court Judges visited C-DAC Pune on 10th March 2018 to examine the technical aspects of the draft rules for Reception, Retrieval, Authentication and Preservation of electronic records under the Indian Evidence Act. The delegation of hon'ble Judges from High Courts included the following dignitaries
Hon'ble Shri Justice Hemant Gupta, The Chief Justice, High Court of Madhya Pradesh
Hon'ble Shri Justice A. S. Oka, Judge, Bombay High Court
Hon'ble Shri Justice Rajesh Bindal, Judge, High Court of Punjab & Haryana
Hon'ble Shri Justice Dr. S. Muralidhar, Judge, High Court of Delhi
Hon'ble Shri Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw, Judge, High Court of Delhi
Hon'ble Shri Justice Rajiv Narain Raina, Judge, High Court of Punjab and Haryana
Hon'ble Shri Justice A. K. Menon, Judge, Bombay High Court
Shri S. M. Modak, Hon'ble the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Pune
The joint committee of Hon'ble High Court Judges has drafted the electronic evidence rules in order to supplement the Code of Civil Procedure, Code of Criminal Procedure and the Evidence Act and to ensure that the legal admissibility of electronic evidence in the criminal proceedings.
Dr. Dinesh Katre, Senior Director, C-DAC, Pune who coordinated this meeting with the Joint Committee of High Court Judges said that the research and development teams in C-DAC had already identified the need for harmonizing the Evidence Act with the Information Technology Act 2000/2008 in order to accommodate electronic evidences in the court of law, and a number of software tools have been prototyped for the encryption, extraction, secure acquisition, preservation and retrieval of electronic evidence in the form of mobile data, message chat, emails, social media activity and computer hard disks.
The C-DAC team shared their experience of establishing certified Trusted Digital Repository as per the ISO standards with the Joint Committee.
Col. Asheet K. Nath (Retd.), Executive Director, C-DAC (Corporate) said that the teams in C-DAC are already involved in the training of judicial staff to equip them with the required technical skill sets for digital evidence gathering.
He said that C-DAC has state-of-the-art technical capabilities in cyber forensic, electronic signature (e-sign) and digitization to support the judiciary in its endeavor.
For more information:
Senior Director & HoD
Human Centred Design & Computing Group
C-DAC, 5th Flr., Innovation Park, Panchavati,
Pashan, Pune 411008
Mobile: 9922992746
e-mail: dinesh [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, May 08, 2019
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
