#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=st_egov_lmis_ap
Land Management Information System
Land Management Information System for DDA
CDAC has designed and developed Web-based enterprise GIS solution for Delhi Development Authority, which is currently being implemented.
The project constitutes the Land Management Information System, which enables the Authorities / Government, Landowners and Public to access and share requisite information with high level of security and data integrity.
The distributed power of the World Wide Web, Critical security and Protection features built in the system would help DDA publish, discover, exchange and maintain the vital geo-spatial information and online geo-processing services.
The system incorporates facility to dole out compensation and enhanced compensation information along with the legalities involved in their business process.
The project involved scanning, digitizing and geo-referencing of the Village Maps (as old as of 1904 vintage), Layout Plans, Master and Land use Plan.
In this context of Automation of Land Records, Spatial digital maps have been generated with due authentication.
The non-spatial attribute information have been captured and stored in RDBMS (Oracle) and have been linked with the spatial map data.
The spatial data and non-spatial data together with the developed application tools and GIS interface has helped the Administration in various aspects like perusing plot information, finding plot of land to be acquired and maintaining the detailed information with high level of integrity.
The web enabling capability has enabled the common citizen to access information related to their plot of land through the Internet.
This system comprises composite three-tier architecture.
The client nodes are allowed to talk to the database server through the application server.
Due to large volume of spatial data and its massive usage, the spatial dataset and data attached to these entities are maintained separately in Oracle Database.
Using spatial database engine, the spatial data has been stored in the RDBMS.
This has facilitated the user to retrieve the data from the database through customized query menus rather than the file system.
This approach provides a system of security and integrity of the data in the application.
The application software resides on application server to coordinate various activities between the client nodes and the database server.
This application server also enables the remote users to access the information through web browser.
For Further Details Please Contact:
e-Governance Division
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120 - 3063339
email: pnbarwal [at] cdac [dot] in
header
my caption
LMIS
