#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=education_training
Education and Training
C-DAC's Education and Training programmes are aimed at creating skilled manpower in the country by providing quality training programmes in the field of Electronics and ICT.
This activity started almost two decades ago with a humble beginning of training about 20 students per year, but has today grown to an extent of training more than 5000 students per year.
It also grew from just one training centre to about 50 training centres across India and has even made its presence in several countries abroad.
In addition to conducting wide range of training programmes in the areas of Information, Communication and Electronics technologies, C-DAC also develops ICT tools and technologies for modern methods of imparting education and training to masses.
The Education and Training activities of C-DAC are governed and steered by Academic Council (AC) and Academic Management Committee (AMC).
Presently, C-DAC offers its various training programmes through its own training centres in Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mohali, Mumbai, Noida, Pune and Thiruvananthapuram, and its network of Authorised Training Centres (ATC) spread across the country.
The various activities under the umbrella of C-DAC's Education and Training Programmes are described below:
PG-Diploma Courses
Post Graduate Diploma Programmes
Formal Training Programmes
Corporate Training Programmes
International Training Program
Other Initiatives
Education Technologies
PACE
C-DAC conducts PG-Diploma Courses of six months duration.
C-DAC conducts two batches of following PGD...
C-DAC also conducts formal training programmes...
Programme for Advancing Computer Education...
C-DAC offers various specialized training...
International Training Programmes
International Training Programmes...
Capacity Building Initiatives...
C-DAC has taken major initiatives in developing...
Academic Collaboration
C-DAC, ACTS offers high end IT training programmes to Engineering / IT graduates to enable them to excel in the IT industry...
header
