#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_hypack_openmp_3x_programs
hyPACK-2013
About
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Home
Programming on Multi-Core Processors Using OpenMP 3.0 APIs
OpenMP 3.0 is a shared-memory model.
The changes between the OpenMP API Version 2.5 specification and the OpenMP API Version 3.0 specification are given below.
For more details, Please visit  OpenMP  API specification.
In OpenMP 3.0, features such as, the concept of tasks, atomicity of memory accesses.
Internal control variables for each task and whole program, modification of parallel region, rules for determination of number of threads, runtime libraries have been included.
Example 1.1   Memory Consistency Model with respect to flush operations
Example 1.2
Program illustrating the use of OpenMP Conditional Compilation
Example 1.3
Illustrate how Internal Control Variables (ICVs) control behavior of program
Example 1.4
Illustrate the use of parallel Construct for coarse grain parallel program.
Example 1.5
Illustrate the use of Loop Construct (collapse clause) by a team of threads.
Example 1.6
Illustrate the use of Loop Construct to compute the matrix-vector multiplication
Example 1.7
Illustrate the use of task Construct for an recursive algorithm.
Example 1.8
Illustrate the use of task Construct for an link list traversal.
Example 1.9
Illustrate the use of task Construct for in-order tree traverse algorithm.
References :
Multi-threading
Java Threads
Books
MPI
Benchmarks
Description of OpenMP 3.0 Programs
Example 1.1  Memory Consistency Model with respect to flush operations
( Download source code : ) mem-consistency-openmp3x.c
view source
print
Objective
Example program illustrating the memory consistency model provided by OpenMP.
The program demonstrates how the OpenMP implicit flush (barrier) operation enforces consistency between temporary view and memory.
The barrier contains implicit flushes on all threads, as well as thread synchronization.
In this example program, at Print 1, the value of  x  could be either 2 or 5, depending on the timing of the threads, and the implementation of the assignment to  x.
There are two reasons that the value at Print 1 might not be 5.
First, Print 1 might be executed before the assignment to  x  is executed.
Second, even if Print 1 is executed after the assignment, the value 5 is not guaranteed to be seen by thread 1 because a flush may not have been executed by thread 0 since the assignment.
The barrier after Print 1 contains implicit flushes on all thread as well as a thread synchronization, so the programmer is guaranteed that the value 5 will be printed by both Print 2 and Print 3.
Input
None
Output
Value of the variable
Example 1.2  Program illustrating the use of openmp conditional compilation
( Download source code : ) mem-cond-compile-openmp3x.c
Write an OpenMP program to illustrate the condtional compilation
The OpenMP implementation supports a preprocessor, macro  _OPENMP  macro name is used with the OpenMP compilation.
To enable conditional compilation, a line with a conditional compilation in fixed sentinel must satisfy the specific criteria.
For more details, please refer  OpenMP API specification.
None.
Print statement will be printed if the macro  _OPENMP  is defined.
Example 1.3  Illustrate how ICVs control the behavior of the OpenMP program.
( Download source code : ) icv-threads-openmp3x.c
Objective
Write an OpenMP program to how Internal Control Variables (ICVs) control the behavior of the program
Demonstrate the use of OpenMP Library calls to change the default values of the internal control variables (ICVs).
The value of the  nthreads-var-ICV is changed via a call to   omp_set_num_threads  for the next parallel region.
The value of the  dyn-vars-ICV  is changed via a call to   omp_set_dynamic ()  for enable or disable the dynamic adjustment of the number of threads available for the execution of subsequent parallel region.
The value of the  nest-vars -ICV  is changed via a call to   omp_set_nested ()  to enable or disable the nested parallelism The value of the  max_active-levels-var-ICV  is changed via a call to   omp_set_max_active_levels ()  to control the the number of nested active parallel regions.
None
Output
Values of the ICVs
Example 1.4  Illustrate the use of   parallel   Construct program.
( Download source code : ) parallel-construct-openmp3x.c
OpenMP program to illustrate the use of   parallel  Construct in coarse-grain parallel program.
Demonstrate the use of OpenMP pragma   parallel   Construct for coarse-gain parallelism, i.e each thread in the parallel region decide which part of the global vector to work on based on the thread ID.
None
Output Vector after scaling
Example 1.5 Illustrate the use of Loop Construct (collapse clause) by a team of threads.
( Download source code : ) loop-collapse-openmp3x.c
OpenMP program to illustrate the use of  loop construct  using the   collapse   clause to distribute the loops to all the threads in the team.
Demonstrate the use of  loop construct  based on   collapse   clause.
The one or more associated loops will be executed in parallel by threads in the team.
The iteration is distributed across all the threads.
The loops over multiple indexes (example  k  or  j  are collapsed and their iteration space is executed by all threads of the current team.
Number of threads and Size of an real array A.
time taken to execute the program & value of collapse clause
Example 1.6 Illustrate the use of Loop Construct to compute the matrix-vector multiplication
( Download source code : ) loop-construct-matvect-openmp3x.c
None
Time taken to execute the program & value of collapse clause
Example 1.7 Illustrate the use of task Construct for an recursive algorithm
( Download source code : ) task-construct-alg-openmp3x.c
OpenMP program to illustrate the use of  task   construct and  task wait   for recursive algorithm - (Sum of the Fibonacci numbers.)
In OpenMP program, a task is generated from the code for associated structured block when the thread encounters a  task construct.
The recursive algorithm (sum of Fibonacci numbers generation) is considered to demonstrate the use of  task   construct.
and   task wait The data environment of the task is created according to data attribute clauses on the   taskconstruct.
(The  Fibonacci numbers  are defined by the following recurrence : Fo = 0, F1 = 1,
F = Fi-1 + Fi-2, for i ≥ 2.
Each  Fibonacci number  is the sum of the two previous numbers.)
None
Time taken to execute the program & sum of the Fibonacci numbers in the specified range
Example 1.8 Illustrate the use of task Construct for an link list traversal.
( Download source code : ) link-list-alg-openmp3x.c
OpenMP program to illustrate the use of  task   construct for list traversal (irregular parallelism) and analyze the program performance using OpenMP 2.5 pragmas.
The link list traversal algorithm generation) is considered to demonstrate the use of   task   construct.
The OpenMP 2.5 pragmas are used to compare the program performance.
The data environment of the task is created according to data attribute clauses on the  task   construct.
Number of threads to use and the number of nodes in the linked list.)
Time taken to execute the program &based on OpenMP 2.5 & OpenMP 3.X pragmas.
Example 1.9 Illustrate the use of task Construct for in-order tree traverse algorithm.
( Download source code : ) tree-traverse-alg-openmp3x.c
OpenMP program to illustrate the use of   task   construct for in-order tree traverse algorithm and analyze the program performance using OpenMP 2.5 pragmas.
The in-order tree traverse algorithm generation) is considered to demonstrate the use of   task   construct.
The data environment of the task is created according to data attribute clauses on the   task   construct.
inorderTraverse_Task () :  uses OpenMP-3.0 Task Construct.
Whenever a thread encounters a task construct, a new explicit task, An explicit task may be executed by any thread in the current team, in parallel with other tasks.
In this approach the several task can be executed in parallel.
inorderTraverse_Wtask () :  Uses OpenMP-2.5 parallel - section directive.
whenever a thread encounter the  parallel  region it creates the team of threads.
When the thread in a team encounter the section directive it execute the section region.
inorderTraverse_Task () :  uses OpenMP-3.0 Task Construct.
inorderTraverse_Wtask () :  Uses OpenMP-2.5 parallel - section directive.
Number of threads to use and the number of nodes in the tree.
header
copy to clipboard
?
