#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=hpc_a_invwav
C-DAC: HPC-SDP: Seismic Inversion
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
SDP Home
R&D Activities
Publications
Seismic inversion
Seismic Inversion aims at obtaining quantitative estimate of subsurface rock-properties such as P-wave velocity, S-wave velocity and density etc. It is basically an optimization problem, which minimizes the difference between observed and modeled seismic wave traveltime/amplitude or both, while updating the intial estimate of parameters.
Seismic inversion starts with an initial model estimate and recorded seismic data.
In the process of inversion, synthetic seismic data is generated using forward modeler and is compared with input seismic data.
Initial model is iteratively updated till good match is obtained between synthetic and input seismic data.
This problem is highly non-linear in nature due to the number of parameters involved.
Two major components of seismic inversion are optimization technique and forward modeling method.
There are two broad classification of optimization techniques, they are gradient based methods like, least-square, conjugate gradient, quasi-linear newton method etc. and stochastic methods like monte-carlo, simulated annealing, genetic algorithms, ant colony optimization etc. The choice of forward modeler depends upon the type of inversion to be performed.
For seismic full waveform inversion, convolution/reflectivity/acoustic/elastic modeling are used.
For tomographic traveltime inversion, eikonal solvers/ray tracing methods are required.
For velocity model building/inversion, migration method like RTM is required.
Since, synthetic seismic data is computed every iteration, seismic inversion is highly compute intensive process.
The requirement of computing resources increases with increase in the size of input data 1D to 2D to 3D and from poststack to prestack data and choice of forward modeler.
At CDAC, we have developed seismic inversion applications using optimization methods such as parallel Generalised Linear Inversion (GLI) using least square, parallel conjugate gradient and parallel Real Coded Genetic Algorithm (RCGA) & Binary Coded Genetic Algorithms (BCGA).
We have developed 1D seismic full waveform inversion, named as "INVWAV" using offset data in order to determine (P-Velocity, S-Velocity and Density) in time domain, using Multiple Realisation of Real Coded Genetic Algorithm (MR-RCGA) and GLI.
INVWAV software can be executed using either Elastic Impedance or Reflectivity Modeling as forward modeler and has been optimized to be suitable for hybrid computing platform using MPI+OpenMP.
This application is highly compute intensive in nature due to the number of forward modeling computions involved per iterations.
It has capacity to work with large number of unknown parameters and with poor initial guess also.
INVWAV: Physical parameters obtained from INVWAV
INVWAV: Observed and inverted angle gather obtained from INVWAV
We have also developed an efficient and robust two-dimensional seismic traveltime tomographic inversion scheme named as “SEISTOM” using RCGA.
Here, the forward modeler is First arrival travetime software known as “FAST”.
This application is highly compute intensive, because traveltime computation is required to be done for thousands of models.
MPI is used for the computation of traveltime over the number of processors.
SEISTOM can work for large domain problem and the efficiency & speedup is achieved by keeping the compute to communication ratio high.
SEISTOM: 2D L shaped velocity model reconstruction using SEISTOM
SEISTOM: 2D velocity model reconstruction using SEISTOM
Another application for 2D Migration Velocity Analysis (MVA) using parallel RCGA known as "SeisMVA" has been developed and executed on PARAM Series of supercomputers.
This application inverts a 2D velocity model using Kirchhoff depth migration generated common image gathers.
Here, we pick the horizons from zero-offset migrated sections and vary only the interval velocities within those boundaries.
This application is also very compute intensive like the other two applications.
The parallelization approach here is similar to the SEISTOM software.
SeisMVA: Velocity reconstruction outcome of SeisMVA.
SeisMVA: Seismic data reconstruction outcome of SeisMVA
Currently, we are involved in enhancement of INVWAV software for 2D acoustic inversion suitable for current class of multicore and manycore architecture.
We would also focus on 2D RTM based inversion method for seismic data using state of the art architecture of PARAM series of supercomputer.
Contact Person
Ms Richa Rastogi
(Principal Technical Officer)
Email: richar [at] cdac [dot] in, contactsdp [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Application Software
Bioinformatics Activities
Computer Aided Engineering
Computational Atmospheric Sciences
Seismic Data Processing
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, June 19, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
Click to close
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
INVWAV: Observed and inverted angle gather obtained from INVWAV.
SEISTOM: 2D L shaped velocity model re-construction using SEISTOM
SEISTOM: 2D velocity model re-construction using SEISTOM.
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
