#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pe_me_HDG_TARANG
TARANG - Digital Programmable Hearing Aid
Brief Description
Tarang melds diverse design technologies such as Digital Signal Processing (DSP), algorithm and tightly-coupled firmware development, ASIC and analog circuit design and power management, along with the physics of audiology, the anatomy of the human ear, and precision mechanicals using fine-geometry components.
Tarang is built around an indigenously developed Application Specific IC, named as NAADA.
NAADA is a 1 million gate ASIC integrating a 32-bit microprocessor and a Digital Signal Processor engine in 130nm technology.
Available in Body-Worn (BW) and Behind-the-Ear (BTE) models, Tarang with its low cost of ownership and maintenance, long operating life, technologically advanced features, is customizable and reprogrammable, to address the needs of the hearing-impaired millions in our country.
The product is amenable for high volume manufacture, with low testing costs.
The major features are high reliability, use of latest DSP technology, customization for individual hearing characteristics, Digital Volume Control, configurable to match subsequent hearing losses, all using the in-house designed programming software 'SHRUTHI'.
Country wide field trials have been successfully carried out in leading medical institutions and hospitals across India.
Tarang has won the National Award for the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, 2012 instituted by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India.
Main uses and domain
TARANG is a customizable and reprogrammable hearing aid to address the needs of the millions of hearing-impaired people in our country
Features and Technical Specifications
Programmable Gain, WDRC parameters and Filter configuration
Multi-channel signal processing
Multiple Listening Programs
Audio indication for change of listening program
Low Battery Beep
Both linear and non-linear prescriptive procedures
Tele-coil support
Platform required (if any)
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Mr. KRISHNAKUMAR RAO S
Group Head, Hardware Design Group,
C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram
Email: raokk@cdac.in
header
Click image to enlarge
EIS
