#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_hypack_advance-point-to-point-mpi
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Parallel Programming Using MPI 1.X Advanced Point-to-Point Library Calls
contents
1. MPI 1.X C/f77 Overview
Module 1 : Using MPI Point-to-Point Communication Lib.
Module 2 : Using MPI Collective Comm.and Comp.
Module 3 : Using MPI Advanced MPI Point-to-Point Communication Lib.
Calls
Module 4 : Using MPI Dervied Data types, Topologies, GroupCommunicators
Module 5 : Based on Dense/Sparse Matrix Computations
Module 6 : Implementing Solution of Linear System of Matrix Equations
Moduel 7 : Implementing Sorting Algorithms, Graph Theory Computations
Module 8 : Implementing solution of Partial Differential Equations Computations
Module 3 :  MPI programs using advanced point-ot-point library calls and execute on Message Passing Cluster or Multi Core Systems that support MPI library.
Example 3.1
Write MPI program to find sum of  n  integers on a Parallel Computing System in which procesors are connected with ring topology and use MPI point-to-point non-blocking communication library calls .
Example 3.2
Write MPI program to find sum of  n  integers on a Parallel Computing System in which procesors are connected with tree topology (Associative-fan-in rule for tree can be assumed) and use MPI point-to-point non-blocking communication library calls.
Example 3.3
Write MPI program to send a message from process with rank 0 to process with rank 1 and process with rank 1 to send a message to process with 0 on a Parallel Computing System (Use MPI point-to-point blocking communication library calls and order these library calls to avoid deadlock).
( Assignment)
Example 3.4
Write MPI program to implement all-gather ring using MPI non-blocking library calls.
( Assignment)
Example 3.5
Write MPI program to implement hypercube exchange algorithm using MPI advacned point-to-point blocking communication library calls.
( Assignment)
Example 3.6
Write MPI program to implement MPI persistent library calls to paralleize  for  loop consists of sequence of send and recive library calls on a Parallel Computing System .
( Assignment)
Example 3.7
Write MPI program to send a message from process with rank 0 to process with rank 1, process with rank 1 sends a message to process with 2, and process with rank 2 sends a message to process with 3 and so on ... on a parallel computing system.
(Use MPI MPI_Sendrecv and MPI_Sendrecv_replace communication library calls and order these library calls).
( Assignment)
Example 3.8
Write MPI program imlementing ring-based all-to-all function using different types of non-blocking communication library calls.
( Assignment)
(Source - References :
Books
Multi-threading
-[MCMTh-01], [MCMTh-02], [MCMTh-I03], [MCMTh-05], [MCMth-09], [MCMth-11], [MCMTh-15], [MCMTh-21], [MCBW-44] )
Description of Programs - MPI Point-to-Point Comm.
Calls
Example 3.1:
Description for implementation of MPI program to find sum of n integers on parallel computer in which processors are arranged in ring topology using point-to-point non-blocking communication library calls
(Download source code : sum_ring_topology-non-block.c
view source
print
Objective
Write a MPI program to find sum of n values using p processors of cluster.
Assume that p processors are arranged in ring topology.
Input
For input data, let each process use its identifying number, i.e. the value of its rank.
For example, process with rank 0 uses the number 0, process with rank 1 uses the number 1, etc.
Output
Process with rank 0 prints the final sum.
Example 3.2:
Description for implementation of MPI program to find sum of n integers on parallel computer in which processors are arranged in binary tree topology (associative fan-in rule) using MPI point-to-point non-blocking library calls.
(Download source code : ) sum_associative_fanin_nonblocking_tree.c
Write a MPI program to find sum of n values using p processors of message passing cluster.
In linear array interconnection network with a wraparound connection is called as a ring.
A wraparound connection is often provided between the processors at the end.A simple way of communicating a message between processors is, by repeatedly passing message to the processor immediately to either right or left; depending on which direction yield a shorter path, until it reaches its destination, i.e., first processor in the ring.
All the processes are involved in communication.
The process with rank k (k is greater than 0) receives the accumulated or partial sum from the previous process with rank k-1.
Process with rank p-1 sends the final sum to process with rank 0.
Finally, process with rank 0 prints the final sum.
For example, process with rank 0 uses the number 0, process with rank 1 uses the number 1, etc.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
copy to clipboard
?
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
