#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_CAE-TL-Dev
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Technical Lead(Dev)
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Technical Lead (Dev)
Name of the Post
CAE (10 years and above)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer – Technical Lead (Dev)(Technical Leads for Track - Dev)
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune / Delhi
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech./ME/ M. Tech in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication / Electrical & Electronics / Electrical
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience.
For - BE / B. Tech /ME/ M. Tech/ MCA / Post Graduate Degree in Science or in relevant discipline- 10 Years and above relevant work experience
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Skill Set
10+ years of experience with Design, development & architecture.
Strong expertise with directing the activities of a software development function for software enhancements and new products.
Strong expertise with maintaining a strong and high performing team and providing them with technical leadership and guidance.
Strong expertise with working on issues where analysis of situations or data requires an in-depth knowledge of project objectives.
Expertise with establishing and assuring adherence to budgets, schedules, work plans and performance requirements.
Monitor team's progress daily while helping to mitigate or resolve risks and road blocks
Manage activities of a development initiative
Collaborate with other teams to define success criteria, establish priorities and distil business requirements into technical solutions.
Mentor and grow individual contributors establishing measurable goals and following up with actionable feedback.
Experience managing a mature Agile Software Development Life Cycle
Experience presenting to large groups
Experience leading teams in fast growing environment
Experience with a modern application stack
Experience working with relational databases (Oracle 12c)
Experience managing a highly available application, including performance, resilience, monitoring, and scale
Good experience on Java , Spring , Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate , Web services , Mircroservices.
Experience working on Linux/ UNIX.
Experience with Cassandra and Oracle
Expertise with RESTful API design
Experience with engineering software releases for cloud deployment
Experience with Kubernetes, Docker, Terraform, Ansible
Proposed Job Profile
Provide Architectural and Design direction
Working closely with senior stakeholders to understand project requirements and help translate these into technical requirements for the development team
Planning and documenting technical specifications for features or system design
Designing, building and configuring applications to meet business process and application requirements
Directing the development team in the design, development, coding, testing and debugging of applications
Writing testable, scalable and efficient code and leading code reviews
Mentoring junior team members and ensuring they adhere to determined software quality standards
Determining project requirements and developing work schedules for the team.
Delegating tasks and achieving daily, weekly, and monthly goals.
Liaising with team members, management, and clients to ensure projects are completed to standard.
Identifying risks and forming contingency plans as soon as possible.
Analyzing existing operations and scheduling training sessions and meetings to discuss improvements.
Keeping up-to-date with industry trends and developments.
Updating work schedules and performing troubleshooting as required.
Motivating staff and creating a space where they can ask questions and voice their concerns.
Being transparent with the team about challenges, failures, and successes.
Writing progress reports and delivering presentations to the relevant stakeholders.
Technical Lead should be flexible enough and be adaptable to the changing and varied work settings.
Should carefully analyse the details of all the work.
Lead will be the interface between the team and the management.
Its important to be firm but equally fair too.
Admitting your mistakes is also equally important.
In order to lead the team successfully it is important to set targets and expectations for the team.
Should have enough knowledge about the designing too in order to involve with the designing team.
Abide by all the project and company guidelines and standards and to ensure that even the team members are doing so.
Fulfilling all the commitments by timely delivering the deliverables.
Maintaining the account of time and also reporting regularly of own work.
Ensure fair tasks assignments where people are assigned with the task as per their skills and personal preferences.
Constantly motivate and encourage team to give their best, especially during the time when they are pressurised with high targets.
Make yourself completely aware with all the technologies thoroughly especially the ones associated with software or application which is under construction.
Carefully analyse the project and rectify the errors found in the process.
Undergoing the process of analysis in order to fulfil the requirement of system wide.
Developing the detailed design structure after understanding the requirements and the design.
Implementing the best practices and coding standards of the project.
Keep on asking for the reviews and feedback from the peers.
Reporting for all the weekly tasks in form of accurate and detailed reports.
To keep a check on the whole system, conduct the testing and integration testing for the entire system.
Working on identifying the project risk and planning mitigation action with the PM at project level.
Lead should be proactive while reacting to the surprises and should have written explanation for the same.
Lead also has to assist and guide the Project Lead/PM/BA in project coordination.
To ensure that Team is working as per the listed procedures, Lead should conduct FIR- Process check master.
Lead should also work on constantly increasing the productivity of the team and reducing the waste on the other end.
Tech Lead should inspire all the other team members, a Lead who is looked upon by all the members.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, July 05, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
