#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=temp_data_logger
C-DAC: Latest Updates
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Expression of Interest (EoI) for Transfer of Technology
Introduction
The Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY) under Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Government of India initiated the Design and Development of Object Tracking system for environmental sensitive items in transit project with C-DAC, Noida as the implementing agency.
The project conceptualizes the indigenous development of wireless (temperature data logger for monitoring the temperature of blood, medicines, vaccines, milk, fruits, vegetables, meat, flowers and other perishable items, industrial and chemical items, grains etc. during transit or storage.
Embedded Systems group of C-DAC Noida has developed the e-safeT “Temperature Data Logger” and the technology is available for transfer to manufacturing industries.
C-DAC Noida would like to invite competent industrial partners for commercialization of the e-safeT “Temperature Data logger” through transfer of technology.
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) is the premier R&D organization of the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY), Ministry of Communications & Information Technology (MCIT) for carrying out R&D in IT, Electronics and associated areas.
Different areas of C-DAC, had originated at different times, many of which came out as a result of identification of opportunities.
About e-safeT "Temperature Data Logger"
The e - safeT is a compact, ultra-low power data logger consisting of a high resolution temperature sensor, memory, visual indicators and wireless link.
This can be used to track the thermal history of the items (blood, medicines, vaccines, milk, fruits, vegetables, meat, flowers and other perishable items, industrial and chemical items, grains etc) while in storage or in transit.
The wireless link is used for location stamping at key transit points.
The logged data can be downloaded and viewed on a computer to enable corrective actions in the cold chain and also to ascertain the suitability of the tracked material for use.
The Key features of e-safeT "Temperature Data Logger" are
Compact, Low Power, high resolution temperature Logger
Measures and logs the temperature of goods in defined intervals
Built-in real-time clock and calendar
Status indication via LED
Data transfer through USB port
Easy to use software
Historical data analysis of entire cold chain
Data export in multiple formats
User programmable alarm threshold
Smart data compression method
Multi session logging
Wireless location stamp at desired points
The brochure containing specifications of the product is attached in Annexure – B (Download Brochure)
Application Areas
BLOOD - Storage and Transport
PHARMACEUTICAL - Vaccine & Temperature sensitive lifesaving Drugs
WAREHOUSE - Industrial, Chemical and Grain Storage
FROZEN FOOD - Perishable items like Fruits / Vegetables / Meat/ Flowers
Technology Transfer
The technology will be transferred on non-exclusive basis.
The technology fee will be finalized at a later stage The ToT package contains the following
Document (s) for design and fabrication including High Level design, Low Level design with block schematic level explanation of the system, and interfacing details.
Bill of Materials of the total system
Gerber files for PCB
Source code of the Software
Test plan and procedure
Guidelines for field trial and commissioning
Training
Handholding support for a period of 6 months
General terms and conditions
An expert committee will scrutinize the applications for follow-up action.
The applicants may be called for a presentation regarding their strengths and business proposals.
All incidental expenditure incurred in preparation/ submission or presentation of the EoI shall be borne by the participating agency
Participation in this EoI does not guarantee any association with C-DAC unless notified by C-DAC in writing.
C-DAC reserves the right of rejecting any offer without assigning reasons.
Last date for submission of EoI is 45 days from issue of the first advertisement.
Any offer received after due date and time will not be accepted.
There is neither a business guarantee nor any commitment for funding support from C-DAC to the appointed/ empanelled agencies.
A Committee of experts constituted by the Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Govt. of India will assess capabilities and strengths of the industry before finalizing the technology partners.
The industry willing to take technology for commercial exploitation will be required to enter into a ToT agreement with C-DAC as per the terms and conditions approved by the competent authority in the DeitY in the prescribed format.
Who can apply?
Industries with experience or interest in Electronics or Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
Agencies willing to take up the local production of e-safeT “Temperature Data logger” by themselves, or in collaboration with Industry partner.
How to apply?
Interested companies may send expression of interest with their details by filling the questionnaire as per Annexure – A along with supporting documents to:
Director (A & R)
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector-62, Noida-201307
Phone: +91-120-3063311-13
Fax: +91-120-3063317
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, February 23, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
