#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=prs_rl193
C-DAC signs MoU with NABI for cooperation in Agri Food Sector...
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
C-DAC signs MoU with NABI for cooperation in Agri Food Sector
February 04, 2011
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune, a national initiative of the Department of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Government of India signed an MoU with the National Agri - Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI), Mohali, an autonomous institute of the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India that aims at catalyzing the transformation of the agri - food sector in India.
Leveraging on the expertise of both the sides, the MoU envisages initiating and promoting High Performance Computing research in the Agri-Food Biotechnology domain.
Speaking on the occasion, Executive Director, NABI, Mohali, Dr Rakesh Tuli said, “This MoU between NABI, Mohali and C-DAC, Pune will foster development of state-of-art bioinformatics research facility (High Performance Computing Cluster) at NABI for genome, transcriptome and epigenome analysis for food and fruit crop improvement.
It will be mainly used for implementing genome-wide association study to find important genes, regulatory elements involved in traits of processing quality and nutrition content in important food and fruit crops.
We look forward to setting up Bioinformatics HPC facility at NABI with help of HPC Solutions Group at C-DAC, Pune”.
Addressing the media, Dr Hemant Darbari, Executive Director, C-DAC, Pune commented that the potential of HPC “to accelerate research is a technological boost to the scientific community, and the agri-food sector will benefit largely from it.
Already, HPC has become a norm in the bioinformatics sector for drug discovery and disease prediction.
Similarly, it will not be long when our scientists from the agri-food sector shall answer to the challenges of better crop production, disease resilient crops and crops with higher nutritional value.
This will surely open the doors to the new agricultural revolution in the country and also solve the problems associated with food scarcity and malnutrition.
We are equally proud to be associated with NABI to share our HPC capabilities and assist their scientists in their domain of research”.
Speaking on the new tie-up, Senior Director, C-DAC, Pune, Dr Pradeep K Sinha said, “It would be the endeavor of C-DAC to impart technological knowledge using the available HPC expertise of C-DAC so that we can contribute substantially to nation-building”.
Mr Goldi Misra, Group Coordinator and Head, HPC Solutions Group, C-DAC, Pune said, “We look forward to nurturing and establishing a new relationship with NABI, thus ensuring, leap-frogging together with innovative and original technologies benefiting directly to large-scale end-users, providing the multiple benefits to the society in Agri-Food Biotechnology domain.”
Dr Shrikant Mantri, Senior Scientist, NABI, Mohali and Shri Abhishek Das, Scientist and Team Leader, HPC Solutions Group, C-DAC, Pune were also present at the occasion.
For more details, please contact:
E-Mail: goldi@cdac.in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
In the News
Press Archives
Year - 2013
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Year - 2010
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
