#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_et_training
Short Term Project Training Scheme
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Education and Training
Education Technologies
Registration Form  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 400 KB, Date: 14/03/2018)
1.About The Scheme
CDAC, Noida is a constituent unit of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing a Scientific Society of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Govt. of India.
It has a multi-campus center with its R&D and academic wings functioning side by side together.
In its endeavor to integrate Research and Education and to meet ever growing Industrial Training need of professional students a short term Industrial Project Training Scheme for BE, B.Tech., M.Tech., ME, MCA, MBA, B.Lib; M.Lib students has been designed and structured by C-DAC, Noida.
Short Term Project Training will increases the Technical Skills of students and gives the Industrial approach for their better future prospects.
The student gets exposure to work on live projects and our Hi-Tech Project guide shares their vast experience throughout the training.
The concept for these training are totally project oriented and dedicated to everyone from any stream who wants to work in IT Industry and want to get the quality education in short duration.
With the help of this training student would learn and get the basic concepts for practical implementation of hands on experience, hands on Tools and Utilities used in Industrial Projects.
2.Selection and Duration
Selection will be purely based on merit and interview.
Only limited seats are available as per the requirement of the projects at CDAC Noida.
The duration of the project varies from 8 weeks to 30 weeks.
Timing will be from 9.30am to 5.00pm.
3.Fees
There is no training fee.
An administration charge of Rs.3000/- non-refundable has to be paid for a project training duration of 8 weeks and Rs.5000/- non-refundable has to be paid for more than 8 weeks project training duration.
Tax as applicable has to be paid along with the administration charges.
4.Benefits to Students
Industrial and Project Oriented Training will provide the students a sense of Industrial Environment and Project Orientation.
Students will be able to handle the Front End, Middle End & Back End Architecture which is required most in the Industry.
Students will become technically strong to deliver his best.
Students will acquire in Depth Knowledge of the Concepts of project Contents.
Students will get quality Mentoring and Guidance.
Students will have access to Library, Internet facilities for their research work.
Student will have feel of Professional, Industrial and Co-operative Environment.
Students will be exposed to live projects.
5.Procedure for Enrollment
The students are required to Download the 'Registration Form for Short Term Project Training', and fill up part 'A' in his/her own hand writing and submit to his/her institute for filling up Part 'B' and thereafter sends the form to Training Cell, C-DAC, B-30, Institutional Area, Sector 62, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201309 by hand/post/courier.
The registration form sent by the candidate will be verified by the training cell for the education qualification and other formalities.
The qualified candidates as per requirement of the project will be called for interview.
The selection is purely based on the interview.
Selected students have to pay the administration charges as mentioned in 'Part C' of the registration form and provide the receipt to Training Cell.
Selected students are required to bring their own Laptop for training.
A project completion certificate is given to the student on successful completion of Training with minimum of 75% attendance.
For Further Details Please Contact:
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Phone No: 0120-3063371/72
email: trainingcell [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Post Graduate Diploma Programmes
Formal Training Programmes
Faculty Development Programmes
Corporate Training Programmes
Other Initiatives
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Thursday, June 10, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
bullet
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
