#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=hpc_nsf_param_yuva_ii
PARAM Yuva II
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
HPC, Grid and Cloud Computing
National Supercomputing Facilities
PARAM Yuva II
PARAM Yuva II is a High Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster that is latest and fastest in the prestigious PARAM series of Supercomputers built in India.
The first sub-cluster of PARAM Yuva II with a peak computing power of 529.4 Tera Flops (TFs) was ranked 69th in the Top500 list released in June' 2013 at the International Supercomputing Conference held at Leipzig, Germany.
Housed at C-DAC premises in the Pune University campus, PARAM Yuva II is a High Performance Computing (HPC) hybrid cluster with multiple interconnects, compute co-processor, high performance storage and supporting software's for parallel computing.
In the PARAM series of supercomputers, Yuva II is an upgraded version of PARAM Yuva, is yet another step towards creating a general purpose research oriented computational environment architected to solve bigger problems and provide an opportunity for scientific breakthroughs.
The increase in peak compute power from 54 Teraflop/s to more than half a Petaflop/s is achieved without any increase in the electrical power and cooling required for the facility.
The Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) achieved a significant milestone with PARAM Yuva II being ranked 1st in India, 9th in the Asia Pacific Region and 44th in the world among the most power efficient computer systems with performance of 1,760.20 Mega Flops (MFs) per Watt as per the Green500 list released in November' 2013 at the Supercomputing Conference held at Denver, Colorado, USA.
High Performance Computing (HPC) systems consume lot of electrical power and produce heat that necessitates requirement of appropriate cooling facilities to ensure proper operation.
To draw focus towards development of energy efficient supercomputers, Green500 list ranks computer systems across the globe according to compute performance obtained per watt, thus providing world ranking based on energy efficiency.
Energy consumed by High Performance Computing (HPC) systems is measured at levels L1, L2, and L3 for the purpose of reporting.
As the level increases, accuracy and rigor of measurement exercise also increases.
It is to be noted that C-DAC is the second organization worldwide to have carried out the level L3 measurement of power for the Green500 listing.
PARAM Yuva II ranked 172 in top 500 supercomputing list June 2015 and ranked 88th in The Green 500 Supercomputers list of June 2015.
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
The National PARAM Supercomputing Facility (NPSF)
Pune University Campus, Ganeshkhind
Pune-411007
Phone No. : +91-20-25704183
Email: npsfhelp [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
High Performance Computing; Grid & Cloud Computing
Supercomputing Systems
Supercomputing Applications
Supercomputing Solutions
Grid Computing
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, March 05, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
