#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=DMC&courseid=26
e-Brochure
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
ACTS Menu
Courses
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
PG-DAI : PG-Diploma in Artificial Intelligence
PG-DASSD : PG-Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development
PG-DRAT : Post Graduate Diploma in Robotics & Allied Technologies
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
Testimonials
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
PG Diploma in Mobile Computing (PG-DMC)
NSQF level: 8
Register for C-CAT
Course Focus
Eligibility Criteria
Course Fees
Course Contents
Course Outcome
Training Centres
FAQs
The Post-Graduate Diploma in Mobile Computing (PG-DMC) is one of the pioneering programs of ACTS.
The main focus of this course is to enable the candidates fulfilling the eligibility criteria, to develop their skill set mainly in areas like Native and Hybrid Mobile Application Development.
The course also focuses on Java Programming, as part of the industry requirement.
This course incorporates Mobility and Analytics keeping in view the emerging trends in mobile technology as well as contemporary and futuristic human resource requirements of the Mobile Industry.
The depth and width of the course is unique in the industry covering a wide spectrum of the ICT industry.
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation, OR
MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics.
with Mathematics in 10+2 ,  OR
Post Graduate Degree in Mathematics / Statistics, OR
MCA
The candidates must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in their qualifying examination.
The total fees of the course is Rs. 76,500/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
The course fees has to be paid in two installment as per the schedule.
First installment is Rs. 10,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
Second installment is Rs. 66,500/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
Operating System Concepts
40 Hours
OS Concepts: Introduction to Operating System, Processes Architecture, Multithreading, CPU Scheduling and Synchronization, Memory management
Linux Programming: Introduction Linux Architecture, Basic Commands, Linux Shell Programming.
Introduction to DBMS
60 Hours
Need of RDBMS Client/Server, Computing Codd’s Rules, Data Models, Normalization Techniques, ER Diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, SQL: DDL, DML, DCL, Sub query Joins, SQL Functions, Stored Procedures, NoSQL concepts, Introduction to MongoDB.
Algorithms and Data Structures
70 Hours
Introduction to STL (Standard Type Libraries), Define the problem, Find Creative Solutions using creativity tools, Evaluate and Select solution, Implementing Decisions, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Analyzing time and space complexity.
Basic Data Structures: Arrays, Stacks, Queues (Circular Queues, Priority Queues, Dequeues), Linked lists (Single, Double and Circular Linked Lists),
Trees and Applications: Tree traversals, Ordered Trees, Binary trees, Complete Binary Trees, Search trees, Binary Search Trees, Self-Balancing Trees
Searching & sorting algorithms: Sequential Search, Binary Search, Selection sort, Insertion sort, Bubble sort, Heap sort, Merge sort, Quick sort, Hash Functions and Hash Tables
Graph and Applications: Graph traversal algorithms (BFS, DFS), Dijkstra’s Algorithm, Bellman Ford Algorithm, All-pairs shortest path, Floyd-Warshall algorithm, Johnson's algorithm, Maximum flow algorithms, Ford-Fulkerson algorithms, Spanning Trees.
Object Oriented Programming with Java
120 Hours
OOPS: Introduction to OOPs concepts, Classes and Objects, Access specifiers, Namespaces and Tokens, Abstraction, Data hiding, Encapsulation, Polymorphism and Inheritance
Core Java: Java 8 and its features, Introduction to JDK, JRE &JVM, JVM Architecture Overview, Data types, Variables, Constants, Operators, Arrays and control statements (if, for, while, switch etc.). Classes in java, Constructors, instance data, method overloading and overriding, super and this keyword, static variables, methods, block and scope, lifetime.
Packages and access rules, Inheritance and its types, Runtime and Compile Time Polymorphism, Abstract classes and Interfaces, Inner classes, Exception Handling, String and Wrapper classes, Generics and Collections, File Handling and Multithreading, Reflection, Java n/w programming, JDBC Driver and Architecture.
Web-Based Java Programming
110 Hours
Introduction to JSON, Servlets, Session Management, JSP and JSTL, MVC Architecture Hibernate framework,  ORM Concepts, JPA, Hibernate architecture, Annotation support and ID generators.
Transaction management, Hibernate Session CRUD API, Hibernate caching,
HQL, Spring framework,  Overview, IOC, Dependency Injection, Spring Beans, Spring Core Container, Autowiring, Web application using Controller, Service & DTO layers, Spring Hibernate Integration and Testing, Web Services,  REST Architecture, RESTful web service using Spring Boot, Integration and Testing of RESTful web server and client, Java Mail API.
Mobile Programming
160 Hours
i.
Android Programming (110 Hrs)
Introduction of Android and its architecture, Android SDK features, Introduction to Kotlin Programming, Android activities, lifecycle and callback methods, Android UI design fundamentals, Layouts, Intents, Toast, Adapters, Dialogs , Animations, Notification and Media Player, Material Design, Fragments , fragments lifecycle and callback methods.List View and Recycler view, ActionBar, ToolBar, Menus and Popups, View Pager, Navigation Drawer Android Storage: SQLite database, Content Providers, Multitasking in Android, Android Location based services, Android Sensors, Using blue tooth and telephony Consuming REST API , JSON Parsing, Retrofit Libraries, Integration with Social Networking like Facebook, Twitter etc , Design Patterns- MVP and MVVM, Publish application on play store.
ii.
iOS Programming (50 Hrs)
iOS History and iOS Architecture, Swift Programming Basics, iOS app development: XCode, UIKit, Controllers, Storyboard, Basic UI Controls, UITextField, UIButton, UILabel, UISegmentedControl, Controller Life Cycle, UINavigationController, UIAlertController, Advance UI Development, Local Storage, REST API Integration: Multithreading and GCD, CocoaPods, JSON GET POST Handling, Alamofire, SwiftyJSON.
Hybrid Mobile Apps Programming
140 Hours
Introduction to Hybrid development, Hybrid application frameworks, HTML 5.0, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Express, Responsive Web Design, React Native: Introduction to React Native and its architecture.
Props and states, Inline and External styling, React native binding, handling events and user inputs, validations, using network in app, Timers, Animations and Gesture Support, Consuming web services, Publishing App to Play Store and App Store.
Aptitude & Effective Communication
80 Hours
Project
120 Hours
Software: A Process, Various Phases in s/w development Software life cycle agile model (Self Study of other models), Introduction to Coding Standards Software Quality Assurance.
After completion of course students will be able to acquire the following skills:
Design and build advanced native apps on Android and iOS platform, work with cross-functional teams to define, design, and ship new features, unit-test code for sturdiness, including edge cases, usability, and general reliability.
Identify and correct bottlenecks and fix bugs, continuously discover, evaluate, and implement new technologies to maximize development efficiency.
Design and build Hybrid mobile apps through HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript web standards.
Analyse and explain the behaviour of programs involving the fundamental program constructs, Design and implement a class based on attributes and behaviours of objects.
Design and implement components like: Session, Entity, EJBs.
Understand the multi-tier architecture of web-based enterprise applications using Enterprise JavaBeans.
Integrate Servlets, JSPs with EJB and Databases in J2EE application.
Understand the deployment descriptor and enterprise application deployment.
How to think creatively, analytically and abstractly about computational problems.
C-DACs - Advanced Computing Training School
Address
B-30, Sector 62, Institutional Area, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201307
Telephone
Contact Person
Mr. VK Sharma
Fax
e-Mail
cdacacts-noida [at] cdac [dot] in
PG-DAC, PG-DVLSI, PG-DGi, PG-DESD, PG-DMC, PG-DITISS, PG-DAI, e-DESD, PG-DBDA, PG-DIoT, e-DAC, e-DBDA, e-DAI, e-DITISS
Sunbeam Institute of Information Technology
Sunbeam IT Park, Phase-II (Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park) Hinjewadi, Pune
Maharashtra 411057
Mr. Nitin Kudale, CEO
020 –24260308
siit [at] sunbeaminfo [dot] com
PG-DAC, PG-DESD, PG-DMC, DASDM, e-DESD, PG-DBDA, e-DAC, e-DMC, e-DBDA
Q. What is the Eligibility for PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing?
A. The eligibility Criteria for PG-DMC is candidate holding any one of the following
degrees
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation.
OR MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics.
Mathematics in 10+2 (exempted for candidates with Diploma + Engineering) OR
Post Graduate Degree in Engineering Sciences with corresponding basic degree (e.g. MSc in Computer Science, IT, Electronics) OR
Post Graduate Degree in Mathematics or allied areas, OR
Q. What is the selection criterion?
A. The selection process consists of a C-DAC Common Admission Test (C-CAT).
Q. What is Fee of course?
A. The fees for the PG-DMC course is Rs. 76,500/- (Rupees Seventy Six Thousand Five Hundred only) plus 18%
GST.
Q. When the course does commence?
A. Twice in a year in the month of September and March.
Admission process will start in month
of July and November every year.
Q. Duration of the course?
A. The duration of course is 30 weeks’ approximately full-time course
with 900 hours Theory+Practical+Project Work
Q. Infrastructure Facilities available?
A. Fully equipped classrooms capacity to accommodate students and state-of-art labs to
explore you computing skills
Q. Hostel & Canteen facility available?
A. Accommodation for out station candidates is facilitated by some of centers.
Please refer Admission Booklet .
Q. Bank loan assistance for the other centers?
A. Facility of educational loans is provided for the selected candidates, which is available at
all nationalized banks.
Q. Revision of the course contents, is it every six months?
A. The course contents are revised according to the real world needs and when found relevant
to the market demands.
Q. Do you have centralized placement cell?
A. Yes, we do have a centralized placement programme where the respective centers actively  coordinate the task of organizing the campus interviews for all the students.
Q. What is the value of the course in the international market?
A. The course has been a trend-setting course due to its unique
curriculum and the
opportunities that it generates; hence it gives the edge over above for the students and
gives an international edge.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, March 14, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
banner
New Arrow
Logo
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
linkedin
twitter
