#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_dss_vaidyasanmitra
C-DAC: Health Informatics- VaidyaSanmitra
VaidyaSanmitra
This application covers most of the clinical requirements.
It includes following tools:
Maanusha Vritta (Personal Information Management System)
Case Analysis
Master Data Management
Vyaadhi Nidaana (Diagnosis and Treatment)
Maanusha Vritta (Personal Information and Management System):
A tool for documentation of clinical data considering various needs of practice and research.
It also provides facility of case analysis and addition of physician's own data
Features:
Useful for documentation and analysis of clinical data.
Facility of storing data of various pathological, radiological investigations.
Facility of storing images, sound files, ECG, X-Ray, video files etc.
Import and export of patient information from one physician to another which is useful for referral and multi-centric clinical trials
Case Analysis:
Multidimensional analysis of clinical data for research and evidence based generation
Extensive study of correlations between patient's diagnostic information, investigations, treatment information etc.
Statistical study based on captured data
Master Data Management:
Enables user to add Causative Factors, Signs and Symptoms, Diseases, Dietary Recipes, Lifestyle, Medicines etc.
Vyaadhi Nidaana (Diagnosis and Treatment):
Provides decision support for probable diagnosis and treatment.
It is based on comprehensive diagnostic and treatment data.
Diagnosis Features:
Systematic examination tool as per classical guidelines
Examinations by various modes
Causative Factors
Systematic Examination
Assessment of organs
Diagnosis on the basis of Signs and Symptoms and Causative Factors
Diagnosis based on Probability & Weightages
Differential Diagnosis facility for more precision
Diagnosis considering different stages of signs and symptoms (Poorvaroopa, Roopa, Upadrava etc.)
Diagnosis of disease with the status of different pathogenesis factors.
(Dosha, Dhaatu, Mala, Agni, etc.)
Treatment Features:
Treatment as per disease, its subtype, patient's status, pathogenesis etc.
Suggests treatment in form of formulations, single drug, dietary recipes, lifestyle, therapeutic procedures etc.
Treatment considering indications and contraindications.
Documentation of diagnostic and treatment related information.
Contact Us
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
header
