#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=aboutus_skoch_foss_olabs_parikshak
SKOCH Order of Merit Medals
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
CDAC Mumbai projects awarded SKOCH Order of Merit Medals and listed among India's Best-2013
Three research projects of CDAC Mumbai have been awarded the prestigious SKOCH Order of Merit medals for their distinguished and outstanding contributions in enabling and promoting Digital Inclusion of Indian citizens into the ICT mainstream.
These projects are:
Enhancing Accessibility for FOSS Desktops
OLABS (Online Labs for School Lab Experiments)
Parikshak
These medals along with certificates were conferred to CDAC Mumbai in an awards ceremony held at 33rd SKOCH Summit during September 2-3, 2013 in New Delhi.
SKOCH awards from SKOCH Group are hailed as one of the highest independently instituted civilian honours in the country and considered as independent benchmarks for best practices in India in the fields of governance, finance, banking, technology, corporate citizenship, economics and inclusive growth.
CDAC Mumbai projects were selected by an eminent jury of domain experts among nearly a thousands nominations through a rigorous scrutiny process.
Scrutiny process went for nearly 3 months comprising about 200 jury presentations and 150 hours of deliberations.
These research projects have also been listed among India's Best-2013 in Smart Governance and Digital Inclusion.
It is noteworthy here that CDAC Mumbai, over 25 years, has been extensively involved in R & D activities related to various fields of software technology such as multilingual computing, e-learning, e-governance, free/open source software & cyber security etc. Solutions developed under these projects are being used by a large number of targeted end-users, community members, institutions etc. and have been highly appreciated by them.
As significant section of Indian population consists of people with disabilities, " Enhancing Accessibility for FOSS Desktops" project is an effort to make common computer desktop accessible to such people, thereby enabling them to avail the benefits of modern ICT technologies.
This project so far has been able to produce reusable and accessible software solutions as per the specific needs of disabled people having visual, physical and cognitive impairments.
All solutions and products developed under the project are open source and freely available.
All these solutions have been widely deployed, distributed and downloaded among individuals and disability related organisations/institutions.
These can be accessed at .
Major products developed under the project are ALViC (Accessible Linux for Visually Challenged), Anumaan (an predictive text entry system) and GEM (GEstures with Mouse) for physically impaired people, GNU/Linux distribution for Cognitively Challenged etc. Moreover, project has also made significant contributions to FOSS communities like Orca, Nautilus, Poppler, and OpenOffice.org etc.
On the other hand, Online Labs (Olabs) for school lab experiments provides students with the ease and convenience of conducting experiments over the Internet.
It has been developed to supplement the traditional physical labs and bridge the constraints of time and geographical distances.
This not only reduces the costs incurred for conducting experiments in real time, but also gives a student the flexibility to explore and repeat experiments till they are thorough.
At present, 30 Physics and Chemistry experiments covering topics like Hooke's Law, Reflection in concave Mirror, Boiling Point of Water, etc are available for online access.
Each experiment has sections covering related theory, procedure, animation, simulation, assessment and reference material.
It can be accessed at http://www.olabs.co.in.
While, Parikshak, an Online Automated Computer Program Grading & Analysis Tool, aims at improving the quality of computer programmers in India, by exploiting automated systems for programming assessment and teaching.
CDAC Mumbai has successfully demonstrated the effectiveness of this tool in its decade old Post Graduate Diploma courses in Software Technology, by providing better computer programmers to the Indian Software Industry.
The tool is now available for use online at www.parikshak.in and has been adopted by distinguished educational and corporate organisations in India.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Corporate Profile
Our Vision
Success Stories
Awards & Accolades
Citizen/Client Charter
HR Policies
Quality Policy
Annual Report
Audio-Visual Gallery
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, March 02, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
Parikshak Skoch
skoch award 2013 Mumbai
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
