#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=st_aba_asaaua
ASA-AUA Services for Aadhaar Based Authentication and e-KYC
C-DAC is empanelled with UIDAI as Authentication Service Agency (ASA) and Authentication User Agency (AUA) for providing Aadhaar based authentication and e-KYC services.
C-DAC is connected with UIDAI’s Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR) through dedicated network links for providing secure and prompt authentication services.
C-DAC’s ASA or AUA-KUA services are available to Government departments, PSUs as well as to registered private organizations.
Main uses and domain :
Aadhaar authentication service provides services to instantly verify the identity of the Aadhaar holder against the available data in CIDR.
Based on the needs of the service, different identifiers could be used along with Aadhaar number.
These identifiers could be combination of biometrics (such as fingerprints, iris impressions) and/or demographic information (such as Name, Date of birth, Address) and/or a secret PIN or OTP (One Time Pin)
Features and Technical Specifications:
Provides instant verification and identification of residents against the available data in Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR) of UIDAI.
Aadhaar based authentication using OTP, Demographic and Biometrics.
The OTP is sent to the Aadhaar holder’s registered mobile number only.
In biometric based authentication C-DAC provides support to fingerprint and IRIS based authentication.
C-DAC ASA-AUA is compliant with latest API’s of UIDAI.
E-KYC Service: UIDAI provides demographic information with photograph of the Aadhaar holder based upon residents’ OTP/Biometric based authentication to the desired service.
Best Finger Detection (BFD): A quality ranking of all fingerprints is returned which can be used to identify the best finger for improved authentication accuracy
C-DAC ASA-AUA is RD (Registered Devices) and Aadhaar Vault compliant.
High available and scalable infrastructure.
Signing and encryption is done using HSM only.
Client portal for transaction monitoring.
C-DAC also provides web based as well as standalone authentication/e-KYC applications to its clients.
Platform required (if any):
Platform Independent.
Click here for brouchure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information:
Management Point of Contact :
Rajeev Srivastava, (rajeevs [at] cdac [dot] in), 022-26201604, Ext. 618
Technical Point of Contact :
Nirmala Salam, (nirmala [at] cdac [dot] in),022-26201604, Ext. 604
Gulmohar Cross Road No.9 , Juhu
Mumbai 400 049
Tel :26201606
header
