#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=DSSD&courseid=29
PGD Courses Brochures
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
ACTS Menu
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
PG-DAI : PG-Diploma in Artificial Intelligence
PG-DASSD : PG-Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development
PG-DRAT : Post Graduate Diploma in Robotics & Allied Technologies
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
Testimonials
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
PG Diploma in System Software Development (PG-DSSD)
NSQF level: 8
Register for C-CAT
Course Focus
Eligibility Criteria
Course Fees
Course Contents
Course Outcome
Training Centres
FAQs
C-DAC has taken up the challenge to address the need for trained system software development professionals by introducing an in-depth course Post Graduate Diploma in System Software Development (PG DSSD) emphasizing to secure software design & implementation practices as per the Industry needs.
Post Graduate Diploma in System Software Development (PG DSSD) is a 22 weeks fulltime course consisting of 9 modules including an industry-relevant project and a seminar.
C-DAC which is doing pioneering research work in providing the system and network security solutions has the requisite expertise to conceive, design to develop and implement a training program in system software development.
The result of their efforts is the most successful career- oriented course “Post Graduate Diploma in System Software Development” (PG DSSD) for Engineers in Electronics, Computer Science and Information Technology and also for Computer Science Post Graduates.
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation.
OR MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics.
Mathematics in 10+2 (exempted for candidates with Diploma + Engineering) OR
Post Graduate in Mathematics or allied areas, OR
MCA
The candidates must have secured a minimum of 55% marks in their qualifying examination.
The total fees for the course are Rs. 81,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
The course fees have to be paid in two installments as per the schedule.
The first installment is Rs. 10,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
The second installment is Rs. 71,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
Advanced C/C++ Programming
140 Hours
C Programming
Introduction, Data Types, Operators, Control Statements, Functions, Data Input & Output, Arrays, Pointers, Strings, Structures & Unions, Bit field operators, preprocessors, C and Assembly, Files, I/O, Code Optimization, Secure Coding Practices in C programming
Data Structures
Introduction to Data Structures, ADT, Complexity of Algorithms, Linked Lists, Stacks, Queues, Sorting & Searching Algorithms, Trees & Graphs
OOPS Concepts, classes, friend functions, Static data members & member functions, Operator and Function Overloading, Inheritance, C++ Files and I/O Support, Virtual Functions and Polymorphism, Templates, Exception Handling, RTTI and STL, Secure coding practices in C++
Computer Networks and Security
80 Hours
Introduction, OSI Layers, TCP/IP protocol suite, underlying technologies, network layer, transport layer & protocols, application layer protocols, Network Packet capturing, Security Engineering Overview, Goals of Security, Types of Cryptographic algorithms, Digital Signatures and certificates, viruses & Intruders, Firewall & Intrusion Detection System, Security Protocols, Application Security, Coding Threats and Malware Analysis.
Software Engineering
20 Hours
Overview of Software Engineering, Software Development Methodologies, Software Project Management, Software Quality Management
Linux System Programming and Driver Development
200 Hours
OS Goals, Services, Components, OS Architecture, Monolithic & Micro Kernel, Linux Architecture, File and Console I/O Functions, Processes, Threads and Scheduling, Inter-Process Communication and Synchronization (Shared Memory, Message Queues, Semaphores and Mutex), Socket Programming, Memory Management (X86 specific), File System Management, Kernel Introduction and module programming, Introduction to Device Drivers, Char Drivers, Synchronization, Debugging techniques, Hardware Management and Interrupt Handling (Top halves and Bottom halves), Timers, task queues, tasklets, Kernel Data types, USB drivers, Overview on Block Drivers and Network Drivers
Windows System Programming
80 Hours
Windows Programming Overview, Handling Processes and Pipes, Handling Virtual Memory, Unicode and Character Internationalization, Creating and Using Threads, Handling Synchronized Resources, Socket Programming, Using the Registry, Using Named Pipes and Mail Slots, Dynamic Link Libraries, Creating Windows NT Services, kernel mode programming and debugging.
Cloud Computing
80 Hours
Introduction to parallel Programming, OpenMP, MPI, Importance and fundamentals of Virtualization, Virtualization Tools and Technologies, Containers, LXC, Docker, Introduction to Cloud computing, cloud Architecture, Open Stack, Open stack Developer's API.
Mobile Computing and Android Programming
80 Hours
Introduction to Java, Creating Classes, Objects, Inheritance, Interfaces & Packages, Exceptions, Multithreaded Programming & Synchronized methods, Input & output stream classes, Overview of Java Native Interface (JNI) and JNI components.
Introduction to Mobile Computing, Overview of Android Platform& Android Building Blocks, Overview of Android Application Components (Activity, Intents, Broadcast Receiver, Content Providers, Service), Android GUI Development and Event Handling, Android Permission Model and Application Sandboxing Cross-Compiling System Programs for Android Platforms, Overview of Android Native Development Kit (NDK) Advantages and Disadvantages of using NDK, Java Native Interface (JNI) Using NDK.
Project and Seminar
120 Hours
As part of this course, Students are required to do project work for the duration of 5 weeks (after
completion of all the modules) The students need to choose a topic in consultation with assigned guide and also give a seminar on the respective dates allocated by the guide.
The topic chosen by the students should be relevant to the System Software Development.
Aptitude and Business Comunication
100 Hours
Aptitude, Reasoning, Mathematical Ability, General English
Official & General Conversation, Official Letter Writing, Official Emailing,
Essay Writing, Event Reporting, Formal Speaking (Telephone, Face-to-Face, Public Speaking), Oral & Digital Presentation Skills, Listening Skills, Cross-Cultural Communication, Technology-enabled Communication, Confidence Building, Formal Etiquettes, Body Language, Developing Positive Attitude, Personal Goal Setting & Career Planning, Job Search Process, Resumes & Applications / Cover Letters, Handling Interviews, Group Discussions, Audio Synthesis, Mock Interviews
These candidates will be trained in System-Level Programming, Operating System Internals, Cyber Security, Computer Networking, software Engineering methodology, Project Development and Management skills.
They can start career as System Engineer, Tester and leads to Project Manager after having relevant experience.
C-DACs - Advanced Computing Training School
Address
Plot No. 6 & 7, Hardware Park, Sy No. 1/1, Srisailam Highway, Pahadi Shareef Via Keshavagiri (Post), Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh 500016
Contact Person
Mr. Sharanabasappa , Senior Technical Officer
Fax
e-Mail
cdachyd [at] cdac [dot] in
PG-DAC, PG-DVLSI, PG-DESD, PG-DSSD, e-DASSD, PG-DASSD, e-DESD, e-DAC, e-DITISS
Telangana 500005
Mr.Sharanabasappa, Senior Technical Officer
Q. What is the Eligibility for PG Diploma in System Software Development?
A: The eligibility criteria for PG-DSSD is candidate holding any one of the following degrees :
Graduate in Engineering or equivalent (e.g. BE / BTech / 4-year BSc / AMIE / DoEACC B Level, etc.) in Electronics/ Computer Science/ IT or related areas, OR
Post Graduate in Engineering Sciences (e.g. MSc in Computer Science, IT, Electronics, etc.) OR
Q: What is the selection criterion?
A: The selection process consists of a C-DAC Common Admission Test (C-CAT).
Q: What is Fee of course?
A: The fees for the PG-DSSD course is Rs. 81,000/- (Rupees Eighty One Thousand only) plus GST.
Due to pandemic the course fees is reduced by 10% on over all course fees.
Q: When the course does commence?
A: Twice in a year in the month of August and February.
Admission Process will start in the month of May and November every year.
Q: Duration of the course?
A: 24 weeks of a full-time course
Q: Infrastructure Facilities available?
A: Fully equipped classrooms capacity to accommodate students and state-of-art labs to explore your computing skills
Q: Hostel & Canteen facility available?
A: Accommodation for outstation candidates is facilitated by some of centres.
Please refer to the Admission Booklet.
Q: Bank loan assistance for the other centres?
A: Facility of educational loans is provided for the selected candidates, which is available at all nationalized banks.
Q: Revision of the course contents, is it every six months?
A: The course contents are revised according to the real-world needs and when found relevant to the market demands.
Q: Do you have centralized placement cell?
A: Yes we do have a centralized placement programme where the respective centers actively coordinate the task of organizing the campus interviews for all the students.
Q: What is the value of the course in the international market?
A: The course has been a trend-setting course due to its unique curriculum and the opportunities that it generates; hence it gives the edge over above for the students and gives an international edge.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, March 14, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
banner
New Arrow
Logo
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
