#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_ftp_library
Library
About Library
The CDAC Noida Library of the Institute plays a significant & vital role to serve the faculties, research fellows, students & staffs.
The library is well equipped with modern facilities and resources in the CD-ROMS, On-line databases, books, Bound volumes, projects reports etc in the field of Information Technology, Electronics, Management and allied subjects.
The Library is in third floor and spread across 580.65 Sqm. This floor can accommodate more than 50,000 books with a seating capacity of the library 200 users.
Library has separate stack for text books, periodicals (current and bound volumes), CD/DVD, Reference sections, Book Bank Section and a separate enclosure with cubical for research fellow and faculty members.
Library facilitates access to number of e-resources of IEEE, ACM and E-books through its participation of MCIT consortium.
The library is rapidly developing its collection of books, reference books, periodicals, and electronic resources.
The library subscribes to a number of periodicals, newspapers and magazines.
The library is also developing a fine collection of Hindi books on Literature and English language.
The mission of the library is to facilitate creation of new knowledge through acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources and providing for value added services.
Mon - Fri : 9:30 AM to 6:00 PM
Saturday : 9:30 AM to 3:00 PM
Lunch Break: 2:00 PM to 2:30 PM
The library shall remain closed on Sunday and other holidays.
All transactions shall be closed one hour before the closing of the library.
OPAC Search
http://koha.cdacnoida.in/
Library services
Circulation : Library provides circulation services such as issue and return of books to the library.
Borrowed books can be renewed on or before the due date stamped unless there is no reservation for the book requested on or before the due date stamped.
Book Bank :  Library provides the book bank facility to its staff and students.
Inter Library Loan : The Library offers inter-library loan service to its users for books and periodicals not available in the CDAC Library by procuring them from other libraries.
Book Reservation : Members can reserve any book in the holdings of the library except reference books.
Such books would be issued to members as per booking order after they are returned.
Xerox facility : The Library offers photocopying service to all its members in nominal cost.
A separate room is equipped with Xerox machine which has the photocopying facility.
Digital Library: The CDAC being a member of MCIT consortium provide online access to IEEE/IEL journals.
ACM digital library and e-books through books24x7.The library is a part of the institute-wide network and has adequate computing infrastructure to cater to the needs of the users.
10 thin clients are provided to user for access the electronic resources as well as browsing of online catalogue of library resources.
The WI-FI facility in the reading area continues to attract users to bring in their laptops to have seamless access to print and electronic resources.
User Awareness Program :  The library takes an active part in the orientation program organized by the institute for the benefit of new students in the beginning of academic year.
They are taken around the library to familiarize them with various resources and services available for them.
Training sessions are also organized whenever a new product or service is introduced.
Any user desiring to know more about library resources and services or to learn how to use a particular resource like OPAC, e-journals, databases etc. should contact Incharge, reference service.
News-Paper e-clippings :  Newspaper cutting of academic related matters, job opportunities and Technology advertisements are collected periodically and displayed in the notice board.
Question Bank :  The Library has Question Bank having old question papers of MCA, M.Tech and MBA courses in physical as well as in digital format for the reference and photocopying purpose to the students to prepare better for examination.
Library Rules
Rules and Regulations
Admission to the Library:- All the members may be allowed for admission to the library.
The following rules must be followed:
Every person who enters the library shall sign the gate register in token of his acceptance to adhere to the rules of the library.
All personal belongings except purses, notebooks and laptop shall not be allowed to the carried with the readers in the library.
These may be kept outside the library by members on their own risk.
The readers shall keep silence within the library premises.
No reader is allowed to sleep in the library.
The defaulter may be refused the use of the library or his/her registration may be cancelled.
Readers are requested not to write or mark or otherwise disfigure and damage books, furniture, etc. In case of any damage being done, the person responsible will be punished as per rules and also required to replace the articles damaged or pay its replacement cost.
Keep mobile phones on silent mode while inside the library.
Please do not speak on the phone inside the library.
Refrain from eating and drinking in the library.
Circulation facilities
Books can be borrowed against library card issued by library to the borrowers.
Text books are issued for 15 days, books under book bank section are issued for 180 days and reference books are issued for 03 days only.
Please return the book/books on or before the due date stamped on the date slip of the item borrowed.
A fine of Rs.5.00 for reference and Rs. 2.00 for Text/Book Bank is charged for books overdue.
At the end of every semester, students are supposed to return all books and pay any overdue charges accrued in their account.
If a book is lost or damaged, students will be required to replace the book or pay the price of the book with administrative charges.
Please report the loss of the card immediately at the circulation desk.
A duplicate card will be issued on payment of penalty charges of Rs. 50.00 each card.
Complete the loan procedure before taking materials out of the library.
Don't let others to borrow books on your card.
Respond to the notices.
Computing facilities
Use the laptops in the separate bays meant for their use in the library.
It is unacceptable to download or access obscene or other offensive material.
Chat, messenger and mobile messaging are prohibited.
10 thin clients are provided to user for access the OPAC and electronic resources.
Please contact the library staff for any problem with systems.
Comply with copyright regulations and publishers license terms while you copy materials, whether in print or electronic format.
Membership Rules
The students of the CDAC shall be enrolled as library members after depositing the specified refundable security money at the time of admission in cash in specified Bank.
All the CDAC, NoidaStaff shall be eligible for enrollment as members of the library after filling the Library Membership Form.
Form is available in the library web page and at the library circulation counter also.
Loan Privilege
The members are entitled to take books on loan at the following scale:
Category of Member
Number of Books
Text Book
Reference Book
M-Tech/MBA/MCA Students
PG Diploma Students
Academic Staff
Project and Administrative staff
E-Resources
The Library is a member of MCIT Library Consortium (Ministry of communications and Information Technology) and subscribed to many e-journals.
The following electronic resources are used at a high frequency by the faculty members, researcher scholars, and students on campus.
ACM Digital Library
IEEE/IEE Electronic Library
Periodicals subscribed
Journals subscribed in Library for the year 2019-2020 (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 51.4 KB, Date: 22/05/2019)
Journals ranking
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 121 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
New Arrivals
Hindi books added in 2018-19  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 61.3 KB, Date: 22/05/2019)
Total Hindi Books available in library 2018-2019 (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 256 KB, Date: 22/05/2019)
Total new collection of books added in library in 2018-19 (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 88.5 KB, Date: 22/05/2019)
Membership form
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 444 KB, Date: 29/8/2014)
Photogallery
Library at a glance
e- resources awareness program
Click the image to enlarge
For Further Details Please Contact:
Academic Block , B-30, Institution Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-3063371-73
email: library-noida [at] cdac [dot] in / rsaswal [at] cdac [dot] in / neerusharma [at] cdac [dot] in
<Back
header
Journals Subscribed
