#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=cs_cf_CSG_SARAN
SARAN (NextGen Service Desk)
SARAN is a web based Service Desk software designed and developed by C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram.
It provides a completely customizable platform with automation support that helps organizations achieve better and productive collaboration among customers and service support teams.
The comprehensive feature set and graphical rich dashboards help to get better insights into various service delivery functions.
Key Features
Multi-tenant architecture
Multiple profile support
Customizable form fields with rich set of field types
Hierarchical user groups and teams
Support for multiple authentication types
Customizable security level
Feature rich dashboard
Extensive search and filtering capabilities
Comprehensive analysis and reporting
Email/SMS notifications
API based third-party software integration
Extensive logging for audit support
Automatic SLA computation
Workflow based automation/escalation
Interactive help/documentation support
Flexible licensing schemes for unlimited users
Incident management profile
Change management profile
Service request management profile
LDAP/Local DB authentication
Organization specific custom roles
Service ticket create/update from email/SMS
Graphical UI for work flow management
Business hour/holiday management for SLA
Custom information capture for users
Service ticket prioritization
User specific search query
Customizable rule for SLA computation
Custom rule/script tasks for workflow
Auto locking of users on multiple failed login attempts
Customizable checklist for each profile
Multi-tenant architecture enable cloud based hosting that is capable of providing multiple virtual instances of the solution.
This feature makes the system ideal for service providers who serve multiple client organizations.
Multiple profile support helps to create different category of tickets like incident management, change management, problem management etc. Each profile is having its own unique forms, user groups and authorization rules.
This helps end users from purchasing and maintaining multiple systems for these functions.
Customizable form fields enable end users to capture any data that is relevant to their business needs by creating forms specific to each function.
Customizable user specific search queries help to save and reuse frequently used filter/search functions.
Rule based Service Level Agreement (SLA) computation helps the organization to create any complex SLA clauses and automate SLA computation.
Graphical User Interface for work flow creation allows creating and visualizing process flows pertaining to service delivery functions and users.
Support for rule-tasks/script-tasks enables to create custom actions for service function and automate the same.
Event based automation facilities enable auto escalation of service functions and tickets.
The solution is periodically audited by CERT-In empanelled agencies for ensuring safe public hosting.
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Group Head, Cyber Security Group,
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram
email- csg@cdac.in,  stpc@cdac.in
Phone : 0471 2781500
header
