#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=job_CAE-BA
Business Analyst
Name of Post
CAE - II (11 years and above experience)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - Business Analyst
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Delhi, Pune
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech.
in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication/Electrical/ Electrical & Electronics
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience
For - BE/ B. Tech / MCA / First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline - 11 years and above work experience of similar nature designing and implementing IT Security Architecture for large applications and experienced in building application layer security.
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Desired Skill Sets
Should have experience in the complete requirements management cycle using hybrid waterfall and agile methodologies of a large project spanning 2-3 years with multiple releases
Hands on experience with requirement management platforms within the Devops framework to understand large RFPs, capture user requirements, functional requirements, and software & system requirements; good understanding of ISO and IEEE requirements engineering standards
Experience of engaging with multi-agency users in the development of complex public sector applications; should possess excellent verbal and written communication skills and should be able to engage users through various modes of communication including workshops, seminars, emails etc.
Should have the capability to work as a part of integrated team comprising of solution architects, SMEs, data scientists, UI-UX Leads, testing & release team and service design architect.
The selected analysts will be required to take complete ownership of the BRD, URS, FRS and SRS and the change management processes; should be able to track the delivery in conjunction with technical project managers.
Proposed Job Profile
The selected Analyst will play a key role in the requirements management of complete solution (Applications, IT Infrastructure, and Operations) of a large turnkey project pertaining to the delivery of enterprise class big data applications with extensive use of AI, ML, and NLP etc. for a public sector organization over a period of 2-3 years.
Will report to the Senior Solutions/ Enterprise Architect and be responsible for the elicitation and recording of requirements at various stages of the project life cycle with multiple releases.
Will have full ownership of the requirements documentation covering BRD, FRS, SRS, SyRS, and NFR.
The selected Analysts will be required to undertake extensive travel to multiple customer locations for interaction on the requirements.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Back to previous page
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
header
