#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_comm_tool_perprog
hypack-2013
About
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Software tools on Multi-Core Processor Systems
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Home
Performance of Programs using tool Suite on Multi-core Processors
Example 1.1
Write a Pthread program to find out number of primes number with in range 1 to 20000 using shared variable.
Using Intel Thread Checker , Find out Whether any Data Race Condition appears during execution.
Example 1.2
Take Correct Version of Example 1.1.
Use Intel VTune Performance Analyzer to analyze this application to reduce execution time.
Example 1.3
Write a Pthread program to compute Matrix Matrix Multiplication.
Use Intel Thread Checker with this application to find out any possible existence of deadlock , data race situation.
Example 1.4
Use Example 1.3 with Intel Vtune Performance Analyzer to find out most time consuming section of this application.
Take appropriate corrective measure and develop new version of optimized application.
Description of MPI-Pthread & Thread Programs & Performance Analysis Using tools
Example 1.1 :   Write A pthread program to find out number of primes within 1 and 20000
(Download source code : ) FindPrimes.c
view source
print
Objective
Write A pthread program to find out number of primes within 1 and 20000.
Use Intel Thread Checker to find out existance of data race condition with in this application.
This is a very simple program to find out number of primes with in 1 and 20000.
But this perticular example contain some bug , because of which , when the program is executed , then data race condition may occur.
As a result for multiple run , the same application will give different result.
User is suggested to use Intel Thread Checker to find out , where at runtime , data race condition appearing and how many times.
Input
None
Output
Total Number of Primes , with in 1 and 20000
Example 1.3 :   Write a Pthread program to compute Matrix Matrix Multiplication
(Download source code : )  MatrixMatrixMultiplication.c
Objective
Write an Pthreads program to calculate Matrix Matrix Multiplication.
Optimize the code with Intel VTune Performance Analyzer
The program given here is an unoptimized version of the application.
user is suggested to use Intel VTune Performance Analyzer and find out the most time consuming section of instruction with in this program and then develop a optimized version of the code.
None
Resultant Matrix
header
copy to clipboard
?
