#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_hypack_pthread_read_write_locks
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Programming on Multi-Core Processors Using Pthreads (POSIX Threads)
Contents
Overview
1. Pthreads programs to illustrate basic Pthread API library calls :
2. Programs based on Numerical Computations (Dense Matrix Computations) using thread APIs :
3. Non-Numerical Computations & I/O (Sorting, Searching, Producer-Consumer) using thread APIs :
4. Test suite of Programs/Kernels and Benchmarks on Multi-Core Processors :
5.
Pthreads programs to illustrate read write API library calls :
6. Pthreads programs to illustrate producer/consumer program for large :
7. Pthreads programs to illustrate simple media player :
Pthreads are defined as a set of C-language programming types and procedure calls, implemented with a  pthread.h   header/include  file and a thread library.
In many situations, data is read more often than it is modified or written.
In these cases, you can allow threads to read concurrently while holding the lock and allow only one thread to hold the lock when data is modified.
A multiple-reader single-writer lock (or read-write lock) does this.
A read-write lock is acquired either for reading or writing, and then is released.
A read-write lock allows for a greater level of concurrency in accessing shared data than that permitted by a mutual exclusion lock.
It exploits the fact that while only a single thread at a time (a writer thread) can modify the shared data, in many cases any number of threads can concurrently read the data (hence reader threads).
Programs that illustrate the use of Read-Write Lock using different read-write lock APIs are described.Sample demo code that gives basic idea of how to use Read-Write Lock and one sample application using both mutex and Read-Write Lock is described so that one can get better idea of what is exact difference between these synchronization constructs and how to use them.
Example 5.1
Write a sample Pthread program to illustrate the use of  Read-Write Lock .
Example 5.2
Write a Pthread program to find minimum value in an Integer array using  Mutex.
Example 5.3
Write a Pthread program to find minimum value in an Integer array using  Read Write Lock.
(Source - References :
Books
Multi-threading
-[MCMTh-01], [MCMTh-02], [MCMTh-I03], [MCMTh-05], [MCMth-09], [MCMth-11], [MCMTh-15], [MCMTh-21], [MCBW-44] )
Description of Pthread Programs
Example 5.1 :   Write a sample Pthread program to illustrate the use of  Read-Write Lock .
( Download source code : ) pthread-readwrite-lock-demo.c
view source
print
Objective
Write a Pthread program to illustrate the use of  Read-Write Lock.
This is a very simple program to illustrate the use of Read-Write Lock APIs.
The implementation is as follows: The main thread creates two child threads - rdlockThread and wrlockThread.
The  rdlockThread  gets the read lock, after it gets it intentionally some wait time is introduced.
During this time the wrlockThread gets the turn and acquires the write lock and unlocks it.
Though there is no actual parallelism involved, this is just to demonstrate the working Read-Write lock APIs.
Input
None
Output
Sequence of acquiring and releasing Read-Write Lock.
Example 5.2 :   Write a Pthread program to find the minimum value in an unsorted Integer array using  mutex  implementation (compare this code with Ex.1.3).
( Download source code : ) pthread-findingmin-in-integerlist-mutex.c
Objective
Write a Pthread program to find the minimum value in an unsorted Integer array using  mutex  implementation.
This is pthread code for finding minimum value in an large integer array.
Here array is divided into different chunks and each thread will find minimum value in its own chunk.
The mutex locks are used to gain exclusive access to the finalminimum value variable.
Once this access is gained, the value is updated as required, and the lock subsequently released.
Since at any time, only one thread can hold the lock, only one thread can update the value
Array Length, Number of threads
The minimum value and Execution time.
Example 5.3 :   Write a Pthread program to find the minimum value in an unsorted Integer using read-write lock implementation.
( Download source code : ) pthread-findingmin-in-integerlist-readwrite-locks.c
Objective
Write a Pthread program to find the minimum value in an unsorted Integer array using read-write lock implementation.
This is pthread code for finding minimum value in an large integer array based on read-write locks.
Read-write locks are more suitable for application where frequency of read operation is more than write operations.
So we can see performance improvement if we use read-write lock in such case.
In this example read lock is allowing many threads to check (read) global minimum value and only if its local minimum value is less than global minimum value it will request write lock and then updates final value.
Array Length, Number of threads
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
copy to clipboard
?
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
