#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_opcg_feedback
OPECG-2009
OPECG-2009 feedback
The participants have been encouraged to send suggestions and information related to the material in the soft-copy of proceedings to OPECG-2009 technology workshop coordinator, preferably by electronic mail to  hpcfte@cdac.in.
The OPECG-2009 organizers would like to encourage those participants interested in sharing their ideas, on technical presentations, codes, important information, web-page contents, technical programme details on this.
We welcome ideas, opinions, critiques, and new parallel processing workshop programme and your views on Hands-on session.
Distinguished faculty members, Scientists from Research & Development Organizations of India, Graduate Students, and Research Scholars, Software processional experts from IT private sector attended the OPECG-2009 technology workshop.
Approximately 150 participants attended these workshops, which include IIT-Madras research scholars.
The important aspects of participant’s feedback are indicated below.
The OPECG-2009 was aimed for beginners & medium level of users for Multi-Core Programming & GPU programming.
The OPEG-2009 workshop met expectations of most of the participants and the workshops course contents were satisfactory.
The participation of IT- Private Sector Companies (NVIDIA, AMD, HP, Intel) was excellent.
The hands-on in Laboratory sessions is very good and sessions on code walk through for specific applications can be included focusing on performance aspects.
The participants suggested that the interaction sessions with faculty members, IT industry experts during the laboratory session could be enhanced.
The participants felt that more number of lectures and laboratory sessions can be devoted to Software tools on Multi-Core processors & GPUs.
The participants suggested that more number of applications should be demonstrated based on programming on Multi-Core Processors and GPU programming..
The participants suggested that the technology workshop on emerging areas of parallel processing such as Multi-Core processors, GPU Computing & Hybrid Computing could be aimed to for applications in Scientific and Engineering.
header
