#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=tvm
C-DAC Centre @ Thiruvananthapuram
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
About Centre:
The centre at Thiruvananthapuram has been working in application oriented research, design and development for various industrial and customer requirements.
Over the years, Centre has acquired competency, expertise and extensive experience in the areas of Broadcast & Communications, Control & Instrumentation, Networking, Power Electronics, ASIC Design and Underwater Electronics.
Apart from the above, centre is also having National Resource center for computing in Malayalam, Resource Centre for Cyber Forensics, National Mission on Power Electronics Technology (NaMPET), Automation Systems Technology Centre (ASTeC), and Intelligent Transportation System (ITS).
The Centre has a VLSI/ASIC design center, PCB-CAD facility, DSP lab, Industrial design facility, Pilot production facility and a Technology information center.
The Centre through its diversified R&D activities in the core areas, has gained multi-disciplinary in-house expertise and so could take up and successfully complete many challenging mission mode products/projects in the last few years.
The centre also has a tradition of completing product development using the outputs of advanced technology research.
Developing the electronics products and systems of today demand interdisciplinary knowledge such as Networking, DSP, Analog, Microprocessor, VLSI, Communications protocols, RF, Power and a host of other specialized fields, which are very difficult and costly to acquire and assimilate.
The centre accorded prime importance to making such products easily productionable, testable and field maintainable, thereby ensuring highly reliable operation.
The technology development initiatives are focused in the identified core areas of Electronics and Information Technology, with funding from various Sponsors.
The outputs of these efforts coupled with the high-value expertise and experience gained are conceptualized as products, either entirely new, or with quantum improvements on those based on existing technology.
Scores of technologies developed have been transferred to Technology partners for large-scale production.
C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram is an ISO 9001:2015 certified R&D Centre for the Design, Development, Supply, Installation, Commissioning, Turnkey Implementation, Maintenance, Customer Support, Consultancy and Transfer of Technology of Products and Systems in the area of Electronics and Information Technology as well as Development and Implementation of Educational and Training Programmes.
This certification is based on the audit conducted by STQC (MeitY), accredited by National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB), India for ISO 9000 QMS.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, May 08, 2019
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
TVM
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
