#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=mc_et_lila_rajbhasha
LILA-Rajbhasha
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
E-Learning / Tutoring System
LILA-Rajbhasha
LILA (Learn Indian Languages through Artificial intelligence) is multi-media based intelligent self-tutoring application for learning Hindi.
LILA, in Sanskrit means 'Play'.
Using LILA, learning a language on your PC can indeed be as enjoyable as playing.
Hindi Prabodh, Praveen and Pragya packages offer a user-friendly and effective tool on the World Wide Web to learn Hindi through the medium of English, Assamese, Bangla, Bodo, Gujarati, Kannada, Kashmiri, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Nepalese, Oriya, Punjabi, Tamil and Telugu.
The courses are based on the Hindi Prabodh, Hindi Praveen and Hindi Pragya syllabi, already in use for classroom teaching and distance education conducted by the Department of Official Language [DOL], Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.
It is a full-length 3-level course specially designed for the above mentioned official Indian Languages (Native Language) speakers of the Government and Corporate Employees and is also useful for those desirous of learning Hindi from the initial stage.
LILA HINDI PRABODH is the first in the LILA multimedia series, which was launched by the Honourable President of India on September 14, 1999 to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of Hindi as the official language of the country.
In subsequent years LILA Hindi Praveen and Pragya were also released.
LILA HINDI PRABODH is also the recipient of CSI-INFOSYS award for "Best Shrink-Wrapped Software Products".
The Salient features of the LILA packages are:
Tracer Module:
Hindi/Devanagari characters are composed of stroke types.
Many strokes make up a character, but for esthetic and practical reasons, an order for writing characters is preferred.
When writing characters, they should be contained in an imaginary box, and in proportion to other characters with which they appear.
Forethought is needed to make a character look right, beginning with where one places the character's first pen stroke, and the proportions of each stroke in relation to the rest of the character as a whole.
When one understands the principles behind the writing process, one can count the number of strokes easily.
The TRACER module enables the user to write each Hindi alphabet stroke-by-stroke.
The order of the strokes allows a writer to reproduce Hindi characters in a uniform manner.
Speech Facility:
The Speech Facility has been provided to facilitate learning of the correct pronunciation and intonation of the words and sentences.
Related words and their meanings along with images have also been provided as part of the Vocabulary Section.
To practice correct pronunciation, there is a Record and Compare facility, which allows the user to record a word or a sentence in his/her own voice and compare it with the standard pronunciation available in the packages.
Video Interface:
For easy comprehension, every lesson has a video film running alongside the narrative.
The sentence spoken in the clipping is highlighted in the text.
Thus making learning easy and interesting.
Images have also been provided for better recapitulation and understanding of concepts.
An On-Line Hindi-English / Indian language Dictionary
is available with meanings, grammatical category and pronunciation for easy reference.
This is accessible from any section of the lesson.
The packages also provide commonly used words and official terminology with pictures and sound.
Cultural Notes
have been incorporated to highlight various aspects of Indian Culture explained through pictures and text.
Pedagogically controlled and graded lessons
Grammatical Notes for each lesson
Exhaustive interactive exercises
Self-evaluation tests with markings
LILA-Rajbhasha can be accessed at http://lilappp.rb-aai.in.
A link is also provided on the Rajbhasha Vibhag website http://rajbhasha.gov.in/
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Standardization
Localisation
Machine Aided Translation
OCR and OHWR
Speech Technology
Indian Language on Embedded Devices
Indian Language Fonts
Indian Language for Media
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Thursday, September 07, 2017
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
prabodh
prabodh1
interface
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
