#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_advt_rect_05_2021_Oct
Consultant on Contact Basis - New Delhi location
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Advertisement No.: C-DAC (H)/RECT No.05 (2021/Oct)
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), is a Scientific Society of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India.
C-DAC has today emerged as a premier R&D organization in ICT&E (Information, Communications Technologies and Electronics) in the country, working on strengthening national technological capabilities in the context of global developments in the field and responding to change in the market need in selected foundation areas.
C-DAC represents a unique facet working in close junction with MeitY to implement nation's policy and pragmatic interventions and initiatives in Information Technology.
As an institution for high-end Research and Development (R&D), C-DAC has been at the forefront of the Information, Communications Technologies and Electronics (ICT&E) revolution, constantly building capacities in emerging/enabling technologies and innovating and leveraging its expertise, caliber and skill sets to develop and deploy products and solutions for different sectors of the economy.
C-DAC's areas of expertise range from R&D work in ICT&E Technologies to Product Development, IP Generation, Technology Transfer and Deployment of Solutions.
Primary Thematic or Thrust Areas addressed by C-DAC are:
High Performance Computing and Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics, VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
C-DAC, Hyderabad is looking for skilled and committed candidates with innovative mindset to contribute towards National Level Projects with societal impact.
Invites applications for engagement as Consultant in the IoT Security Project for STQC, New Delhi.
Post:
C-DAC Post Code:
CHYD/2021
Job Location
No. of Positions
01 (One)
Duration of Consultancy
02 (Two) years (May be extended based on project requirement)
Educational Qualification & Experience
B.E/B.Tech in Electronics/Telecommunications/CSE/IT or equivalent degree or AMIE or DOEACC ‘B’ level with atleast 20 years of experience in IoT, Embedded Security Standards and Testing Procedures.
Skill Set
Experience in Security Testing Processes for Electronics Hardware, particularly Embedded Systems and IoT devices.
Knowledge of Common Criteria requirements and standards for electronic devices.
Should have Technical and Project Management expertise to undertake development of security testing guidelines and common criteria development of electronic devices.
Job Profile
Review globally available IoT and Embedded Security Standards and Testing Procedures.
Orchestrate and manage a testing and evaluation lab for hardware testing of IoT Devices and Embedded Systems to global standards.
Provide guidance in Common Criteria for testing CE based Electronic hardware devices.
Monthly Consultancy Fee
Up to Rs.1,00,000/- (up to one lakh)
Age
Below 62 years as on last date of application submission
Apply Now
Note: CANDIDATES ARE ADVISED TO CAREFULLY READ THE DETAILED ADVERTISEMENT BEFORE FILLING THE ONLINE APPLICATION.
General Terms & Conditions:
Above mentioned position is on fixed duration and against approved project.
Number of positions advertised may vary as per the C-DAC's requirement.
The requirement of consultant is purely temporary in nature, for the above project undertaken by C-DAC.
Engagement of incumbent as consultant does not confer any right to him to claim any temporary or permanent employment with C-DAC.
For the above position physical presence is must at work place.
Applicant age should not be more than 62 years.
The cut-off date for ascertaining the age and experience will be Last Date of Application: i.e 28-Oct-2021.
Experience:
Only those experiences which are relevant and acquired after the passing date of the qualifying qualification will be considered.
The decision of C-DAC in this regard will be final and binding.
Applicant should have excellent academic qualifications, experience & expertise in the field.
Applicant should have performed previously at a responsible position in Research Organization or at an eminent position in the industry.
Important Notes:
Applications are invited from Indian Nationals only.
In case of ambiguity/dispute arising on account of interpretation in version other than English, English version will prevail.
Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification for selection.
Interview Call Letters, other correspondences (if any) etc. will be send to candidatesthrough email at the email id provided in their application form.
No hard copy will be sent.
Mere issue of Interview call letter will not imply acceptance of candidature or selection for the post.
In case of internal candidates, please note that the finally selected candidates will have to resign from the services and join the post as fresh candidate.
All queries pertaining to engagement including selection process should be addressed to hrd-hyd@cdac.in .
Kindly note that we have not authorized any agent/ agency for representing C-DAC for anything related to engagement or its processes.
Number of vacancies may increase/decrease based on the final assessment and such changes will be made by C-DAC without any notice.
C-DAC reserves the right to cancel or introduce any examination/Personal Interview/Other selection process.
C-DAC also reserves the right to cancel/restrict/curtail/enlarge the engagement process and/or the selection process without any notice and without assigning any reasons.
It is the responsibility of the candidates to assess his/her own eligibility for the post for which he/she is applying in accordance with the advertisement.
In case, it is found at any point of time in future during process of selection or even after appointment that candidate was not eligible as per prescribed qualification, experience etc, which could not be found at the time of selection due to whatever circumstances, his/her candidature/appointment shall be liable to be cancelled/terminated as case may be.
No TA /DA will be provided for attending the interview.
How to apply
Before filling the online application form, Candidates should read 'General Terms and Conditions' carefully.
Candidate should read all the eligibility parameters and ensure that he/she is eligible for the post before starting to apply online.
Candidate should have a valid email id and mobile no. which should remain valid & active till the completion of selection process.
Candidates can click on the 'Apply' button provided to apply.
Fill all the details in the application form at the appropriate places.
After filling all the details in online application form click on 'Submit' button
Candidates should scan their photograph in .jpg format (not more than 300 KB) and keep it ready before starting to apply online for uploading.
Candidates should download the “Personal Particular Form” and upload the filled Form and also upload the higher degree certificate (Graduation / PG) in PDF Format
A unique registration number will be generated by the system, please note this application number for future reference and use.
Candidates can take a print of the application form and keep it with them for their own records.
No hard copy/printed applications should be sent to C-DAC.
Incomplete and defectively filled up forms shall be rejected straightway and no subsequent correspondences will be entertained in this regard.
Candidate working in Government/PSUs/Govt.
Autonomous bodies should produce 'No objection certificate (NOC)' from their current employer at the time of interview, if called for, failing which they will not be permitted to attend the interview.
Apply by clicking appropriate link: http://cdac.in/ index.aspx?id=current_jobs
IMPORTANT DATES:
Commencement of on-line Registration of application by candidates
12-Oct-2021
Last date for on-line registration of application by candidates
Likely date of Interview
First Week of November
Will be communicated by email only
Human Resource Department
Plot No. 6 & 7, Hardware Park,
Sy No. 1/1, Srisailam Highway,
PahadiShareef Via Keshavagiri (Post)
Hyderabad -501510
Web Site: www.cdac.in
Phone: 9100034448-Ext -941,942
Please Note:  The candidates are advised to visit C-DAC website regularly for notices/ information.
Corrigendum/Extension/updates etc., if any, shall be published in our website www.cdac.in only.
High Performance Computing,
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, October 12, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
