#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot882
2 supercomputers from Pune in world's fastest 100
2 supercomputers from Pune in world's fastest 100
Times of India
June 19, 2013
Two of the four supercomputers in the country that feature in the top 100 in the list of 500 fastest supercomputers in the world, are from Pune.
While the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) supercomputer stands 36th in the list, ParamYuva II, developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced computing (C-DAC) has bagged the 69th position.
The IITM supercomputer is yet to be installed while the Param Yuva II became operational from February 8 this year.
The list of top 500 supercomputers in the world was announced on Tuesday during the launch of the opening session of the International Supercomputing Conference in Leipzig, Germany.
Rajat Moona, director general, C-DAC said, "This is a major step for the country (for two of its supercomputers) to figure in the top 100 fastest supercomputers in the world.
Over the years, India was losing its position in the supercomputer area in the world.
In 2008, India had 10 machines in the top 500, but after that there was a bit of a downfall.
In contrast, in 2004, China was nowhere on the scene but in the latest list, its supercomputer has taken the top ranking."
Moona said that India has taken a major step in the latest rankings and has more potential to move up as there is a huge demand for supercomputing in the country.
He said that the union government is also looking at making an investment of Rs 5,000 crore in this area over the next five years.
Moona said, "There is a so much of high-end work being done in the area of weather forecasting, fluid dynamics, air borne bodies, ship movement, disaster management, design of earthquake prone structures that need massive supercomputing infrastructure.
As a result of this need, the supercomputing infrastructure is also improving and has led to an improvement in world rankings for the country."
The Param Yuva II has a capacity of 524 teraflops and within three weeks of launching it was already running with a load of 70% of its capacity.
Precise weather forecasting, faster tapping of natural resources in the sea and designing of customised drugs for individuals are some of the applications possible using Param Yuva II.
It also promises to be energy efficient with 35% reduction in energy consumption as compared to other supercomputers.
The IITM supercomputer will start functioning in the next two to three months, Suryachandra Rao, chief programme scientist, department of high performance computing, IITM said.
Rao said, "The supercomputer, once installed, will boost research in weather and climate forecasting as well as air pollution."
Rao said that the process of installing the supercomputer was in progress and within one week of installation, it will be running.
All the institutes under the union ministry of earth sciences will be using the IITM supercomputer facility.
Pride of place
Four supercomputers from India make it to fastest 100, of which two are from Pune
Param Yuva II of Centre for Development of Advanced computing (C-DAC), gets 69th position
In 2008, India had 10 machines in the top 500, but had lost its position over the years
China, which was nowhere until 2004, got the top ranking this year
header
