#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_hypack13_m1_mcore_openmp
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Shared Memory Programming (OpenMP 3.0)
contents
OpenMP overview
1.OpenMP programs to illustrate basic API library calls
2.Programs based on Numerical Computations (Dense Matrix Computations) using thread APIs :
3. Non-Numerical Computations & I/O (Sorting, Searching, Producer-Consumer) using thread APIs :
4. Test suite of Programs/Kernels and Benchmarks on Multi-Core Processors:
5. OpenMP 3.0
The specification of the OpenMP Application Program Interface (OpenMP API) provides a model for parallel programming that is portable across shared memory architectures from different vendors.
Compilers from numerous vendors support the OpenMP API.
The directives extend the C, C++ and Fortran base languages with single program multiple data (SPMD) constructs, tasking constructs, work-sharing constructs, and synchronization constructs, and they provide support for sharing and privatizing data.
The OpenMP  Execution Model  and  Memory Model  features are addressed in some of the programs of  hypack13-2013.
OpenMP-compliant implementations are not required to check for the data dependencies data conflicts, race conditions, or deadlocks, any of which may occur in conforming programs.
OpenMP does not cover compiler-generated automatic parallelisation and directives to the compiler to assist such paralleilzation.
Click here ...... to know more about OpenMP/Codes
The OpenMP programming model plays a key role by providing an easy method for threading applications without burdening the programmer with the complications of creating, synchronizing load balancing, and destroying threads.
The OpenMP model provides a platform independent set of compiler pragmas, directives, function calls, and environment variables that explicitly instruct the compiler how and where to use the parallelism in the application.
In  hypack13-2013  OpenMP laboratory session, the important OpenMP 3.X APIs are used to write several programs and some of these are described below.
The  internal control variables (ICVs)  control the behavior of an OpenMP program.
These ICVs store information such as the number of threads to use for future   parallel   regions, the schedule to use for work sharing loops and whether nested parallelism is enabled or not.
Programs on how ICVs affect the operation of   parallel   regions are illustrated.
OpenMP 3.X important features on   Task Scheduling,     parallel construct,     worksharing construct,     combined parallel worksharing Constructs,   and   Synchronization constructs   are discussed.
Example programs on number of threads for a  parallel  region, schedule of a   worksharing  loop are provided.
An overview of several clauses for controlling the data environment during the execution of   parallel   clause,   task     worksharing   regions is discussed.
Programs based on OpenMPI API runtime library routines  runtime library definitions,   Execution environment routines,   Lock routines  and  portable timer routine  are supported in the Hands-on Session.
Example programs using OpenMP 3.X pragrams based on numerical and non-numerical computations are discussed.
List of OpenMP Programs
OpenMP programs to illustrate basic OpenMP 3.X API library calls.
: Examples include some introductory programs on use of OpenMP pragmas, parallel directives (the  for  directive), Threading a Loop, work-Sharing constructs, function calls, Reduction Operations, synchronization, data handling, Managing Shared & Private Data, Critical Section & Environment Variables.
Programs based on Numerical Computations (Dense Matrix Computations) using thread APIs.
:  Examples programs on numerical integration, vector-vector multiplication using block striped partitioning, matrix-vector multiplication using self scheduling algorithm, and block checkerboard partitioning, computation of Infinity norm of the square matrix using block striped partitioning.
The focus is to use different thread APIs and understand Performance issues on multi-core processors.
Non-Numerical Computations & I/O (Sorting, Searching, Producer-Consumer) using thread APIs.
: Examples programs on Sorting, Searching algorithms, Producer Consumer programs & OpenMP I/O programs using different OpenMP pragams are discussed.
The focus is to use different OpenMP pragmas and understand Performance issues on multi-core processors.
Test suite of Programs/Kernels and Benchmarks on Multi-Core Processors : A test suite of programs on selective Dense Matrix computations, and Sorting Algorithms, are discussed on multi-core processors.
Different OpenMP Pragma have been used to understand Performance issues on multi-core processors.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
