#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot986
Lal Singh directs for better health services
Daily Excelsior
December 27, 2015
Exhorting upon the health functionaries to put in their dedicated efforts to provide better services to the patients, the Minister for Minister for Health and Medical Education, ARI and Trainings Choudhary Lal Singh today said that concerted efforts are being made to augment health sector by providing better infrastructure and facilities across the State.
The Minister was speaking at a function organised by Jammu and Kashmir Medical Employees Federation (JKMEF) at Government Medical College, today.
He stressed on fulfilling the duties with dedication to improve the work culture in the Government hospitals, adding that health functionaries have a major role in improving the health services in the state .He said that it is due to the joint efforts of the Health and Medical Education Depa-rtments, that Jammu and Kashmir is No. 1 State in Health Sector in the country.
Director General Indian System of Medicines Dr. Abdul Kabir Dar, Managing Director JKMSCL Dr. Yash Pal Sharma, Principal Government Medical College Dr. Zahid Geelani, Director Health Services Dr. Baljeet Singh Pathania, Director Family Welfare Dr. Baldev Raj Sharma, Mission Director National Health Mission Dr. Mohan Singh, President JKMEF Sushil Sudan besides HoDs of various department of GMC and representatives of JKMEF of Jammu province were present on the occasion.
The Minister said focus is being laid on strengthening the existing health institutions including laboratories and emergency wards in rural and far-off pockets of the State to ensure best possible healthcare facilities to the people.
Later while addressing a press conference the Minister informed that Government will ensure free 80% drugs to the people in Government hospitals.
He also apprised that Jammu and Kashmir Medical Supplies Corporation Ltd (JKMSCL) has become operational and orders have been placed for purchase of medicines for Government hospitals on lowest approved rates.
He said that the JKMSCL would ensure procurement of quality drugs and other hospital supplies on affordable prices.
He said JKMSCL established on the analogy of Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Ltd and Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation Ltd. with the object of procurement, testing, stocking and distributing quality drugs, medicines, equipment and associated requirements of Govt. Health and Medical Institutions of J&K on affordable prices while also making JKMSCL a self-sustaining company.
Choudhary Lal Singh said that JKMSCL approached C-DAC Govt. of India to provide application software for implementing e-Aushadi (Drug, vaccine distribution management System-DVDMS), e-Upkarn (Equipment Maintenance and Management System-EMMS) and Human Resource and Finance Management System (HMFMS), so as to achieve prime objective of JKMSCL that is “Zero Tolerance – Quality Control” and to incorporate accuracy and transparency in tendering, procurement, warehousing and distribution of quality medicines, fluids, surgical, sutures and Machinery and Equipments, etc.
The Minister also informed that e-Aushadhi is a web based supply chain management application deals with purchase, inventory management and distribution of various drugs, sutures and surgical items to various district drug warehouses of State, District Hospitals and their sub stores like Community Health Centre (CHC) and Primary Health Centre (PHC) to distribute drugs to patients, the final consumer of the supply chain.
Choudhary Lal Singh said instructions have been issued to JKMSCL to expedite the procurement of other groups of items like equipments, surgical disposables, instruments and dressing material etc.
header
