#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=DGi&courseid=21
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
ACTS Menu
Courses
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
PG-DAI : PG-Diploma in Artificial Intelligence
PG-DASSD : PG-Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development
PG-DRAT : Post Graduate Diploma in Robotics & Allied Technologies
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
Testimonials
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
PG Diploma In Geoinformatics (PG-DGi)
NSQF level: 8
Register for C-CAT
Course Focus
Eligibility Criteria
Course Fees
Course Contents
Course Outcome
Training Centres
FAQs
Geoinformatics or Geomatics is the synergy of multiple disciplines, namely, GIS, remote sensing, photogrammetry, cartography, GPS and geodesy.
It is fundamental to all the disciplines, which use data identified by their locations.
Geomatics deals with spatial and non-spatial data, their methods of acquisition, management, analysis, display, and dissemination.
Applications of geomatics are mainly oriented to real world management problems pertaining to natural and man-made environments.
The Post Graduate Diploma in Geoinformatics (PG - DGi) aims to provide conceptual knowledge on GIS, remote sensing and related fields, and hands-on training in GIS, remote sensing data interpretation, digital image processing, digital photogrammetry, digital cartography and GPS.
There are also three electives i.e Geoinformatics Business & Project Management, GIS Development and RDBMS.
The course contents have been designed keeping in view the emerging trends in the field of Geoinformatics and the increasing needs of skilled manpower
Graduate in Engineering (10+2+4 or 10+3+3 years) in IT / Computer Science / Electronics / Telecommunications / Electrical / Instrumentation, OR
MSc/MS (10+2+3+2 years) in Computer Science, IT, Electronics with Mathematics in 10+2, OR
4-year Degree in Geosciences / Petroleum / Mining / Civil/ Planning / Architecture / Forestry / Agriculture, or related fields, OR
Post Graduate Degree in Geography / Geology / Natural & Applied Sciences / Mathematics, or allied areas.
The candidates must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in their qualifying examination
The total fees of the course is Rs. 76,500/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
The course fees has to be paid in two installment as per the schedule.
First installment is Rs. 10,000/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
Second installment is Rs. 66,500/- plus Goods and Service Tax (GST) currently 18%.
Geographic Information Systems & Global Positioning Systems
90 Hours
Introduction to Digital cartography, Map Projections, Map projections transformation, Introduction to Geoinformatics, Geographic Data Quality & Structure, Data Uncertainty of Geo-spatial Data, Elements of GIS Data, Geographic Data Acquisition, Analogue to digital conversion,
Manipulation of Spatial Data –Vector Data, Manipulation of Spatial Data –Raster Data, Thematic map Preparation,
Open Source GIS, Global Positioning Systems, Introduction to surveying, Introduction to GPS, Types of Errors, Basic Statistical concepts, Global GPS programmes and India’s Contribution, GIS and GPS: Present status and future scenario
Geostatistics with R and Spatial Analysis
140 Hours
Introduction to R Syntax, Introduction & Installation of R, R Basics, Finding Help, Code Editors for R, Command Packages, Manipulating and Processing Data in R, Reading and Getting Data into R, Exporting Data from R, Data Objects - Data Types
· Statistics
Descriptive statistics and Sampling Techniques, Median, Mode, Standard deviation, variance, Probability, Frequency distribution, Covariance and Correlation, Regression: Linear & Multivariate, Covariance & Correlation in multivariate data, Probability, Basic Components of Geo-Statistics, Spatial Continuity-Variogram Modeling, Geographically Weighted Regression (GWR), Spatial estimation (Interpolation Techniques), Nongeostatistical (Deterministic) Estimation, Global Estimation, Local Estimation, Geo-statistical (Probabilistic) Estimation, Simple Kriging, Universal Kriging, Mapping & Geo-Visualization With R
· Spatial Analysis
Introduction to spatial analysis, Various mathematical and logical operations, Vector analysis, Various Techniques of Statistical analysis, Overlay Analysis, Purpose of overlay analysis, Various overlay analysis techniques, Geoprocessing, Multi Criteria Analysis and Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP), Raster analysis (Local, Zonal and Global operations), Interpolation techniques, Surface Mapping, Introduction to Network Analysis, Site Suitability Analysis.
Remote Sensing
60 Hours
Introduction to Remote Sensing, Overview and concept of remote sensing, Components of a Remote Sensing System, Application areas of Remote Sensing, Energy sources & radiation principles, Electromagnetic radiation, Energy interactions in atmosphere, Energy interactions with earth surface features, Spectral response patterns of common earth surface features, Remote sensing data acquisition & platforms, Satellites and satellite orbits, Image resolutions, Data Recording Technology, Across track and Along track scanning
Image Interpretation, Colour Fundamentals & False color composites, Satellites and Sensors, Major earth observation satellite programmes, Current Satellites & sensors
Thermal Remote Sensing, Microwave remote sensing & Hyperspectral Remote Sensing
Digital Image Processing
50 Hours
Introduction to Digital Image processing, Digital image fundamentals, Image processing fundamentals,  Image Processing system Considerations, Image Statistics, Remote sensing data products and formats, Remote sensing data products, Image formats: BIP, BIL and BSQ, Image Rectification & Restoration - Geometric correction, Radiometric correction, Noise removal, Image enhancement - Contrast Manipulation, Contrast stretching, Spatial feature manipulation, Edge enhancement, Multi image manipulation (Image transformation), Spectral ratioing - Vegetation indices, Principal component analysis, Image classification, Unsupervised classification, Supervised Classification, Post classification steps, Change Detection, Introduction to AI & ML (Using ARCGIS Pro inbuilt tool without coding)
Geospatial programming in IT
234 Hours
Introduction to DBMS, Types of DBMS: Introduction to Hierarchical Model, Network and Relational Models, Object Oriented Database, Data models (conceptual physical and logical), DDL Commands
Data Integrity & integrity rules, DML Commands: Select/Insert/Update/Delete, DCL Commands: Rollback, Commit, savepoint.
Number Functions: -Single Value Functions: NVL, ABS, CEIL etc,
Group Value Functions: AVG, COUNT, MAX etc Grouping Things Together (Group By, Having Clause) , Joining, Introduction to PL/SQL,  Exceptions,  Cursors , Procedures, Functions, Triggers,  Packages, Indexes , Clusters, Snapshots, Creating Database, Users, Roles & Privileges, Import & Export
Java
JVM Architecture , Setting a Class Path , Simple Program in Java (Compile & Run) , Data Types & Identifiers , Operators Conditional Statements , Array & Looping (Mix concepts) , Classes & Objects , Access Modifiers (Private, Public, Protected, Default) , Inheritance (IS A, HAS A) , Polymorphism (Overloading & Overriding) (Super & This Keyword).
, Packages & Imports , Visibility of Access Modifiers , Final with Variable, Classes & Methods , Static , Abstract & Interface , Passing an object in Argument , Inner Classes & Wrapper Class , Collections , Exception Handling , Threading , I/O Classes , Applet , JDBC overview through ODBC.
Advance java
Web Architecture, Introduction to JSP, Life cycle of JSP, JSP API, JSP in Eclipse and other IDE's , RMI , Servlets , Session Management.
Java Script
JavaScript Introduction, Variable declaration, Operators, Control Statements, Understanding arrays, Function Declaration, Working with Objects, Inheritance in JavaScript using prototype, Working with HTML form and its elements, JavaScript Events, JavaScript strings, JavaScript Numbers & JavaScript Date.
Web Technology
Architecture of the Web, HTML programming, DHTML , CSS, The Purpose and Nature of XML, XML Syntax and Structure rules, XML Document Type Declaration, XML and Data Binding, XML linking mechanisms, XML style language, Web Application Development
Geospatial programming in GIS
76 Hours
Post GIS
Introduction to PostGIS, Spatial Objects for PostgreSQL, Simple spatial SQL, Viewing data in PostGIS, Creating spatial Indexes, Spatial analysis in SQL, Distance Queries, Spatial Joins
Google API
Introduction to Google map API, Mapping Fundamentals, Creating first map Application, Use of Marker icons and Info Windows, Geocoding, Google API and KML
Desktop GIS Customization
Q-GIS: Introduction to the QT and QGIS Classes, Customization of Quantum GIS using Python, How to create a python plugin for QGIS, The python syntax (indentation, colon, ...), My first python plugin: display a message box, The main QGIS API classes and their relations, Constants and settings: QGis and QgsApplication classes, Plugin interface: Q-GIS Interface and common methods used in plugins
Arc-GIS: Introduction to Arcpy and Python window, Working with Map Layers, Create a search cursor using list of string fields in python, Create a search cursor using an SQL expression in python
Web GIS (ARCGIS Server / GeoServer)
An Introduction to Geoserver, Anatomy of a Geoserver Application, Styling, Feature Map Layer, Geoserver User Interface, Non-Spatial Query, Web Mapping, Web Services and GIS, Different Kinds of Web Mapping, Working with Geoserver, Building Geoserver, Developing applications using Geoserver, Creating Mapping Application Using HTML, Java Script and Geoserver, Connecting Geoserver with spatial database, Fetching and displaying layers on QGIS from Geoserver.
Latest Trends in Geoinformatics
20 Hours
Aptitude and Effective Communication
80 Hours
Project & Seminar
150 Hours
After completion of course students will be able to acquire the following skills:
Comprehend fundamental concepts and practices of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and advances in Geospatial Information Science and Technology (GIS&T).
Effectively communicate and present protect results in oral, written, and graphic forms.
Attain a foundational knowledge and comprehension of the physical, computational, and perceptual basis for remote sensing.
Gain familiarity with a variety of physical, biological, and human geographic applications of remote sensing.
Apply principles and techniques of digital image processing in applications related to digital imaging system design and analysis.
Analyze and implement image processing algorithms.
Gain hands-on experience in using software tools for processing digital images.
Prepare, manipulate, display and analyse environmental spatial data
Hands on Geostatistics with R.
Have used and be comfortable with online resources that support geo computing and programming in the GIS profession.
C-DACs - Advanced Computing Training School
Address
B-30, Sector 62, Institutional Area, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201307
Telephone
Contact Person
Mr. VK Sharma
Fax
e-Mail
cdacacts-noida [at] cdac [dot] in
PG-DAC, PG-DVLSI, PG-DGi, PG-DESD, PG-DMC, PG-DITISS, PG-DAI, e-DESD, PG-DBDA, PG-DIoT, e-DAC, e-DBDA, e-DAI, e-DITISS
Q. What is the Eligibility for PG-Diploma in GeoInformatics?
A: The eligibility Criteria for PG-DGi design is candidate holding any one of the following degrees:
Graduate in Engineering or equivalent (e.g. BE / BTech / 4-year BSc / AMIE / DoEACC B Level, etc.) in Electronics/ Computer Science/ IT or related areas, OR
Post Graduate in Engineering Sciences (e.g. MSc in Computer Science, IT, Electronics, Intrumentation etc.), OR
The candidates must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in their qualifying examination.
Q: What is the selection criterion?
A: The selection process consists of a C-DAC Common Admission Test (C-CAT).
Q: What is Fee of course?
A: The fees for the PG-DGi course is Rs. 76,500/- (Rupees Seventy Six Thousand and Five hundred only) plus 18% GST.
Q: When the course does commence?
A: Twice in a year in the month of September and March.
Admission Process will start in month of July and November every year.
Q: Duration of the course?
A: The course duration is 30 weeks approximately full-time course with 900 hours of Theory +Practical + Project Work
Q: Infrastructure Facilities available?
A: Fully equipped classrooms capacity to accommodate students and state-of-art labs to explore you computing skills
Q: Hostel & Canteen facility available?
A: Accommodation for out station candidates is facilitated by some of centres.
Please refer Admission Booklet.
Q: Bank loan assistance for the other centres?
A: Facility of educational loans is provided for the selected candidates, which is available at all nationalized banks.
Q: Revision of the course contents, is it every six months?
A: The course contents are revised according to the real world needs and when found relevant to the market demands.
Q: Do you have centralized placement cell?
A: Yes we do have a centralized placement programme where the respective centers actively coordinate the task of organizing the campus interviews for all the students.
Q: What is the value of the course in the international market?
A: The course has been a trend-setting course due to its unique curriculum and the opportunities that it generates; hence it gives the edge over above for the students and gives a international edge.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, March 14, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
banner
New Arrow
Logo
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
