#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=lu_NAADI
NAADI
NAADI: National Analytical Platform for Dealing with Intelligent Tracing, Tracking and Containment of COVID19 Pandemic
Under the SAMHAR-COVID19 Program of C-DAC, we have developed a platform called NAADI: National Analytical Platform for Dealing with Intelligent Tracing, Tracking and Containment of COVID-19 for infected persons and quarantined people.
NAADI offers along with Two Mobile applications namely, 112++ India App for Citizens and nCov Satark App for Health Professionals and Government Decision makers.
NAADI also offers Customized Asset Management System of C-DAC for COVID19.
This platform has extensively used the expertise garnered by three successful platforms developed by C-DAC; Emergency Response Support System (ERSS), e-Sanjeevni & Mercury: Tele-medicine Solution and "Suraksha Mitr" Vehicle Tracking System (VTS).
ERSS is an integrated system that provides a common platform to receive distress calls in the form of voice, message, email, panic signal etc. through a Single Number '112'.
C-DAC has carried out Nation-wide deployment of '112 system' and around 5.5 Lakh downloads of '112 India App' by users have facilitated saving many lives and persons in distress.
e-Sanjeevni and Mercury are already deployed in Ten States.
VTS is also a well proven system for online tracing and tracking of vehicles.
NAADI platform offers Comprehensive Multi-Level, Multi-modal and Multi-lingual Tracing, Tracking and Containment of COVID-19 Quarantined/Under Observation/Infected Individuals.
NAADI Provides:
Automatic Data collection and Analytics
Offers Customized Asset Management System of C-DAC for COVID19
Big data Ingestion Platform that can take in Multi-Modal Location data
Data Security & Privacy Preserving methods through Encryption and Anonymization
Intelligent Real-time Data Analysis and Visualization for Proactive Decisions
National-level, State-level, District level and Individual level Granularity
Scalable Platform powered by High-Performance Computing Infrastructure
Fig-1. NAADI Architecture and Components
nCov-Satark App (Powered by C-DAC's NAADI Platform) for Health Agencies
Role based access control and workflow
Authentic & Automatic Data Extraction & Analysis of Past travel history of affected Individuals
Violation detection based on Location based tracking (GPS) of movements of quarantined/affected individuals
Tracking individuals based on Call Data Records (CDR) and (IPDR) beyond location based services
Proactive Alerts related to Health professionals
Triggering Medical Emergency and Response.
'SHOUT' feature for registered Health Worker close to the victim for immediate assistance.
Remote diagnosis by Health Expert based on Spatio-temporal data analysis.
Automatic Proactive alerts to avoid COVID-19 affected locations precisely.
Finer level tracing through Bluetooth for real-time analysis to aid users know about encounters and interactions with affected individuals.
Spatio-temporal analysis of user movements in reference to COVID-19 affected areas
Ops Logistics System
Resource Management of COVID19 related resources like Hospital, Hospital Beds, ICUs, Ventilators, Drugs, Ambulances etc
National Level, State-level, District-level and Taluka-level Multi-level views
Seamless Data porting from various formats (csv, xls etc)
Dynamic addition of resources and adding availability status
Intuitive Visualization and Analysis
It is gratifying to note that a few applications are being developed and are being launched as a quick response by many agencies.
The tool developed by C-DAC is comprehensive connecting citizens, health agencies and Government Decision makers.
It provides the following features in addition to the ones provided by these applications which will complement and strengthen our country's efforts.
Real-time Field level data through closed loop mechanisms
Emergency Response and Incident Handling features for triggering actions at field level
Call Data Records (CDR) & (IPDR) beyond location based services and for coarse level granularity.
Quarantine Violation detection based on Location based tracking (GPS) of movements of quarantined/affected individuals.
Customized Asset Management Solution for COVID19
Finer-level granularity of tracing movements and encounters based on Bluetooth short ranges.
HPC based Scalable Platform for National Level Data Collection and Analytics (using Data Science).
It is our strong conviction that this NAADI platform will prove to be a giant leap in our country's efforts to combat COVID19 Pandemic.
Fig-2. Visualization & Analytics
Fig-3. nCov-Satark Mobile App
Fig-4. 112++ India App
Fig-5. Overall Eco-system and External Interfaces
NAADI platform offers Comprehensive Multi-Level, Multi-modal and Multi-lingual Tracing, Tracking and Containment of COVID-19 Quarantined/Under-Observation/ Infected Individuals.
header
Naadi Logo
NAADI AC
Mobile APP
Overall ECO
