#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pe_ngcs_CIG_ICSSTB
Industrial Control System Security Test Bed (ICSSTB)
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Professional Electronics, VLSI and Embedded Systems
Next Generation Control Systems
Brief Description
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) such as Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition System (SCADA), Distributed Control System (DCS) etc. are key elements of critical infrastructure of a nation.
In order to ensure the security of ICS, a fool-proof and trust worthy information technology security testing platform is necessary.
C-DAC under the sponsorship from Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India had designed and established a security test bed (ICSSTB) for assessing the vulnerabilities in various components of industrial control systems.
ICSSTB can be used for securing & protecting ICS/SCADA systems against wide range of cyber-attacks.
Various utilities can make use of this facility by testing their control system using ICSSTB.
Control systems comprising Industrial automation controllers and SCADA software can be tested using ICSSTB.
ICSSTB operates as complete sandboxed testing environment for control systems simulating field signals in real time with cyber security analysis capability.
ICSSTB developed by CDAC has the capability to define plant process model, simulate plant model and security analysis on hardware, software and communication facilities of the control system used to operate the defined plant process.
The major components of the ICSSTB are:
Plant Process Simulation Environment for simulation of plant equipments, related sensors & actuators and process for ICS under test.
ICS Security Analyser used to carry out vulnerability tests and exploits on the ICS under test.
ICS Test platform consists of facilities to install and configure control system as in a real process plant environment.
ICS test platform consists of :
Test Jig for providing mechanical support to install and configure various ICS devices like automation controllers under test
Virtualized ICS environment for ICS computers and network - sandboxed virtual machines for creating ICS networks and computers such as server, engineering workstation, operator console etc. loaded with various ICS software.
Facility for visualization of the architecture of ICS under test is possible using a Centralized viewing facility called ICS Dashboard.
Main uses and domain
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) such as SCADA and DCS , Process Industries, Power Plant etc
Domain : Industrial Automation Control system Security
Features and Technical Specifications
Complete sand-boxed Test environment for ICS
Secure networking infrastructure inside ICSSTB with multiple levels of ICS networks
Specialized ICS Testbed Dashboard software to manage, configure and operate the cluster of virtual computers to set up the ICS under test
Virtual Plant Process Simulation Platform
Software for Modeling , Simulation and Visualization of plant process
Controller for generation of Field signals for the ICS controllers under Test (4-20 mA, 1-5 VDC and 24 VDC)
Test jig Facility to connect Field input/ output signals (DI/DO/AI/AO) of Industrial Controllers under test such as RTU/PLC/IED
ICS Under Test Platform
Sandboxed ICS environment on a cluster of computers with Virtualization software having ready to use baseline Windows / Linux operating system for installing ICS software under test
Facility to install, configure and run complete ICS software systems on a virtualized hardware environment
ICS Security Analyser Platform
Facility for Cyber Security Analysis of Industrial Control Systems (ICS)
Cyber Security Test Manual to carry out testing of vulnerability in ICS to analyze ICS configurations, Process Logic, Firmware and Communication
Vulnerability analysis of Industrial Controllers using in house developed Penetration Testing tool (RTUPenTester) and generation of Cyber Security Test Reports for the device under test
Facility to carry out ICS cyber security analysis using virtualized windows Operating systems loaded with Exploit tools
Facility to analyze the Firmware and Electronic circuit of the device under test
Capturing and Analysis of ICS communication packets
Platform required (if any)
NA
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Vinukumar A R.
Scientist G/ Senior Director, Control & Instrumentation Group,
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Thiruvananthapuram - 695033.
INDIA.
Email: vinu@cdac.in
+91 471 272 3333 x. 426
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Professional Electronics VLSI & Embedded Systems
Agriculture and Environment Electronics
Strategic Electronics Systems
Smart Grid Security
Augmented Reality (AR)
Smart Card Technologies
High Speed Networking
Medical Electronics
Ubiquitous Computing
Internet of Things IOT
Power Electronics
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Thursday, June 24, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
