#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_hs_medinfo_hl7_more
HL7 SDK More
Overview
Learn
License
Downloads
Documents
Contact Us
SDK for HL7
Usage Scenario
Complete set of HL7-defined systems
Toolkit provides comprehensive implementation of all standard-defined systems like Patient Administration System, Financial Management System, etc. All HL7 defined messages/ events and queries are supported by the toolkit.
This enables programmers to build comprehensive Health Information Systems using toolkit.
Rapid Application Development Tool
Object oriented approach of the toolkit allows developers to build applications in short time.
The toolkit provides default implementations for almost all the functionalities defined by the standard.
This enables rapid development of applications through default mechanisms.
High ROI
Cost-effective implementation of the toolkit allows developers to invest less and achieve more benefits from the toolkit.
The kit is customizable at the package level by which developer can opt for specific set of services and features.
Data Exchange Scenario
Object-Oriented Approach
The toolkit follows object-oriented approach in which programmers can simply deal with messages/ events as objects.
This way components of HL7 messages can be considered as properties of objects and hence easy to get-set the values in messages/ events.
This approach enables developers having minimal required knowledge of HL7 standard to easily build applications.
Highly configurable and extensible
Since the toolkit helps building applications and is itself not an application, it is designed to be highly configurable and extensible.
It can be configured for logging mechanism, internationalization support.
HL7 defined value tables are available by default with the library.
Along with this, the programmer can add custom value tables to the library.
Debugging, Validation and logging support
Toolkit performs strict validations as per HL7 standard specifications.
Logging support is customizable and it supports different levels during logging enabling developers to debug applications and view data generated during protocol violation.
header
