#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot948
Govt to launch Rs 4,500-cr National Supercomputing Mission
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
facebook
twitter
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
Govt to launch Rs 4,500-cr National Supercomputing Mission
Business Standard
March 26, 2015
The mission will enable India to leapfrog to the league of world-class computing power nations
The government today approved launch of National Supercomputing Mission to connect national academic and R&D institutions with a grid of over 70 high-performance computing facilities at an estimated cost of Rs 4,500 crore.
The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved the launch of the mission that will enable India to leapfrog to the league of world-class computing power nations, an official release said.
"We are going to install 73 supercomputers in different parts of the country and all will be linked by a computer grid.
This is about Rs 4,500 crore scheme in which Rs 2,800 crore will come from the Ministry of Science and Technology and the rest, about Rs 1,700 crore, from my department, IT, " Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.
"...
As far as supercomputing is concern India is ranked at number 74 and China is number 1.
We have got 500 supercomputers in world and India has only 9, " he said.
The mission would be implemented by the Department of Science and Technology and Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) through Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore.
This will be done at an estimated cost of Rs 4,500 crore over a period of seven years, the release said.
The mission has been conceptualised and evolved keeping in view the ever increasing computing demand of the scientific and academic community in the country, international technology trends and roadmaps, strategic importance and emergence of supercomputing as a benchmark for scientific and technological advancements, it said.
It envisages empowering academic and R&D institutions spread over the country by installing a vast supercomputing grid comprising of more than 70 high-performance computing facilities.
The Mission supports the government's vision of 'Digital India' and 'Make in India' initiatives.
These supercomputers will also be networked on the National Supercomputing grid over the National Knowledge Network (NKN).
The NKN is another programme of the government which connects academic institutions and R&D labs over a high speed network.
Academic and R&D institutions as well as key user departments/ministries would participate by using these facilities and develop applications of national relevance.
The Mission also includes development of highly professional High Performance Computing (HPC) aware human resource for meeting challenges of development of these applications.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
MeitY
Ministry of Electronics &
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2020
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, October 17, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
BHIM-UPI
Swachh Bharat
