#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=prs_rl187
C-DAC signs MoA for Technology Transfer of TETRA Solution
Pune / Thiruvananthapuram,
January 20, 2010
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) signed a Technology Transfer Agreement (MoA) with E2E Wireless and Network Solutions Pvt Ltd (E2E), Bangalore for the technology transfer of its indigenously developed TETRA technology at Pune, today.
Shri Rajan T Joseph, Director General, C-DAC and Shri G Sreenivasa Rao, Chief Mentor, E2E Group signed the papers on behalf of their respective organizations.
Also present during the signing ceremony were Dr Uday Poharkar, Registrar, C-DAC, Shri Simon Zachariah, Sr Director, C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Thomas Varghese, Managing Director, E2E and other senior officials of C-DAC.
Under the terms of the MoA, C-DAC and E2E will jointly work towards adapting the TETRA technology for railway applications.
E2E will develop railway signalling applications and other Professional Mobile Radio applications using the TETRA technology.
They will also use the TETRA technology to provide Control and Communication services to railway and other potential customers.
The scope of the agreement also includes the manufacture and sale of C-DAC's TETRA products.
The E2E Group is promoted by its Chief Mentor, Shri G. Sreenivasa Rao who is also the founder and Managing Director of the McML Group, a leading Railway Company in India and abroad.
The E2E Group focuses its business models on both railway and non-railway businesses.
Commenting on the MoA, Shri G. Sreenivasa Rao said, "the E2E group provides a platform for next generation entrepreneurs to build successful business through strong technology base and collaboration, and contribute to the nation's economic growth.
We are proud to partner with C-DAC, which is one of the leading R&D institutions in India to take their TETRA solutions to the global market.
We believe that TETRA has great potential in the railway sector and will provide huge opportunities to offer improved and enhanced services through multiple applications development."
Addressing the media, Shri Rajan T Joseph said, "TETRA combines Cellular Mobile Telephony, Packet Data and Digital Mobile Radio together on one open cellular platform to offer a broad range of services.
C-DAC has been working in the TETRA technology for over a decade with more than 250 Engineer years of effort, resulting in total system solution.
This is the only indigenous work carried out by any R&D Institution in India in the area of advanced Digital Mobile Radio communication.
We look forward to working with the E2E Group towards amalgamating our TETRA solutions for applications in the railway domain that is sure to redefine a whole plethora of services in this sector".
TETRA is the open standard for Professional Mobile Radio.
C-DAC has successfully developed totally indigenous solutions for Digital Mobile Radio Technology based on TETRA standard of ETSI.
TETRA is used world wide for public safety, homeland security and military.
C-DAC technology development in this arena includes technology for the TETRA terminal equipment, infrastructure, gateways and network components.
The salient features of TETRA include voice and data support for individual and group communication.
The standard also supports a wide range of supplementary services and encryption features to ensure the privacy and confidentiality of sensitive communication.
TETRA also ensures fast call set up and user-to-user direct mode communication in the absence of a base station.
This makes TETRA attractive for strategic applications as well.
C-DAC's TETRA solution has now been integrated with Disaster Management systems and distress call response management systems integrating a range of Gateways and GIS servers..
Police Departments in the states of Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Kolkata are already using these solutions from C-DAC.
This solution is being considered by major industries interested in marketing TETRA technology which include BEL, TATA, KELTRON, ITI etc.. C-DAC has also implemented TETRA projects and sub systems for international clients earning large foreign exchange.
Other major initiatives of C-DAC in the Broadcast and Communications domain include indigenous technology development for Software Defined Radio, Cognitive Radio and Mobile Adhoc Network.
C-DAC is today executing major projects in these arenas with DRDO, Indian Army, Indian Navy, Border Security Force and State Police Departments.
For more details, please contact :
Sundaram K. V.
Joint Director, Broadcast & Communications Group
Thiruvananthapuram - 695 033, KERALA, INDIA
Ph: + 91 471 272 2951, 272 3333 Extn.
259, Mob.098951 17816
Fax:+ 91 471 272 3456
header
