#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_CAE-TL-QA
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Technical Lead(QA)
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Technical Lead (QA)
Name of the Post
CAE (10 years and above)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer – Technical Lead (QA)
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune / Delhi
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech./ME/ M. Tech in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication / Electrical & Electronics / Electrical
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience.
For - BE / B. Tech /ME/ M. Tech/ MCA / Post Graduate Degree in Science or in relevant discipline- 10 Years and above relevant work experience
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Skill Set
Reviews client requirement and provides feedback
Responsible for creating test plans and strategy
Reviews and re-evaluates the test strategy to adjust for new information, changing risks, shifting priorities, and schedules
Oversees testing of software features
Oversees quality review of various applications
Oversees projects to make sure work is scheduled based on priorities, risks and team strengths and assignment of resources across projects
Oversees implementation and execution of functional, regression, and acceptance tests
Assists in test environment setup/teardown, test automation, and exploratory testing
Oversees the creation and maintenance of test data and test documentation
Provides suitable solutions for issues/errors based on the understanding of the system and client business processes
Leads/mentors Test Engineers and shares knowledge to make sure QA staff meets technical qualifications required for their positions
Assists in coaching junior staff, by helping them to make decisions, solve problems, manage meetings and set goals, provides feedback on testing-related tasks, delegates and assigns testing responsibilities
Works with clients in evaluating and implementing new technologies and offer strategies for new opportunities
Assists in formulating QA standards and best practices, organizational policies and processes and strategic plans
Assists management in setting the direction for quality assurance within the organization
Proposed Job Profile
Establish and evolve formal QA processes, ensuring that the team is using industry-accepted best practices.
Oversee all aspects of quality assurance including establishing metrics, applying industry best practices, and developing new tools and processes to ensure quality goals are met.
Act as key point of contact for all QA aspects of releases, providing QA services and coordinating QA resources internally and externally.
Lead and mentor QA team members, as well as manage outside contract testers.
Develop and execute test cases, scripts, plans and procedures (manual and automated)
Responsible for creating test plans and strategy
Defining quality standards and metrics for the current project/product.
Working with all stake holders to ensure that the quality metrics is reviewed, closed and agreed upon.
Make the QA team aware of the Quality matrix and resolve all the queries.
Create a list of milestones and checkpoints and set measurable criteria to check the quality on timely basis.
Defining processes for test plan and several phases of testing cycle.
Planning and scheduling several milestones and tasks like alpha and beta testing.
Ensuring all development tasks meet quality criteria through test planning, test execution, quality assurance and issue tracking.
Work closely on the deadlines of the project
Ensure the team is focusing on automation along with manual testing.
Keep raising the bar and standards of all the quality processes with every project.
Set processes for test plan reviews and ensure that that test plans get reviewed by all stakeholders.
Review test strategies and see that all the various kinds of testing like unit, functional, performance, stress, acceptance etc. are getting covered.
Set Quality standards for the teams in various new testing technologies in the industry.
This may include finding new strategies for automation testing and day to day work processes like agile and scrum.
Setting up goals and objectives for QA Engineers
Motivating team for achieving continuous Improvement
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, July 05, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
