#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot923
C-DAC: EFY Awards 2013 Announced
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
PR Newswire
March 24, 2014
The EFY Group, a premier publishing group for the electronics industry, presented the 10th edition of the EFY Awards on March 14 at a ceremony held in the Le Meridien Hotel, Bengaluru.
The award, Electronics Leader of the Year, was won by Vinod Sharma, managing director, Deki Electronics.
Receiving the award, Vinod Sharma said, "It is good to know that the industry likes and values the efforts I have put in during the past few years to boost electronics manufacturing in India."
A special jury award was given to the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India, for its exemplary policy initiatives.
EFY Awards aim to recognise brands, organisations and individuals who are leaders in their respective segments within the Indian electronics industry.
The awards were presented across 26 product categories to brands voted by the readers of the 'Electronics For You' and 'Electronics Bazaar' magazines.
Awards are also given in six special categories, where the winners were selected by a jury of six members.
Welcoming the guests, Rahul Chopra, managing director of the EFY Group, said, "EFY Awards are an attempt to give recognition to the leading enterprises and individuals in the Indian electronics industry.
Being the leading publication (EFY) in the electronics industry, we have taken the initiative to identify the frontrunners among the companies and individuals in the industry, with inputs from the electronics fraternity."
Receiving the Lifetime Achievement Award, T Vasu, director, Tandon Group, said, "I'm privileged to receive this award from EFY, the leading promoter of the electronics industry in the country, second to only DeitY, to which we owe our entire life.
EFY Awards are certainly an encouraging catalyst."
Rajan Shringarpure, managing director, and director, operations, Vishay Components, winner of two awards in the categories 'Resistors' and 'Diodes & transistors, ' said, "We are, of course, delighted to receive two awards.
To be voted the best in India in the two major products of our portfolio, by people in the industry, is a feeling that is very fulfilling."
Accepting the award in the category of 'Oscilloscopes', Kapil Sood, managing director, Tektronix, said, "It's a fantastic feeling as we have been winning this award for the last 10 years in a row.
EFY is a very well respected and widely read magazine, so its readers voting for us over all these years is significant for us."
C-DAC won the award for being the 'Most Popular Training Institute' for electronics.
Accepting the award, Dr. Kumari Roshini V S, associate director, C-DAC, said, "It's a very proud moment for all C-DACians to receive this award.
Our focus in education training is to impart whatever technology we have developed as part of C-DAC to the academic community as well as others."
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
