#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=help
C-DAC Help
Viewing Information in Various File Formats
The information provided by this portal is available in various file formats, such as Portable Document Format (PDF), Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
To view the information properly, your browser need to have the required plug-ins or software.
For example, the Adobe Flash software is required to view the Flash files.
In case your system does not have this software, you can download it from the Internet for free.
The table lists the required plug-ins needed to view the information in various file formats.
Note: To view Microsoft Office 2007 files, install the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack along with the respective viewer.
Document Type
Download
PDF content
Adobe Acrobat Reader (External website that opens in a new window)
Word files
Word Viewer (in any version till 2003) External website that opens in a new windowMicrosoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word (for 2007 version) External website that opens in a new window
Excel files
Excel Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) External website that opens in a new windowMicrosoft Office Compatibility Pack for Excel (for 2007 version) External website that opens in a new window
PowerPoint presentations
APowerPoint Viewer 2003 (in any version till 2003) External website that opens in a new windowMicrosoft Office Compatibility Pack for PowerPoint (for 2007 version) External website that opens in a new window
Flash content
Adobe Flash Player (External website that opens in a new window)
Audio Files
Windows Media Player
Accessibility Help
Use the accessibility options provided by this Web site to control the screen display.
These options allow changing the text size and color scheme for clear visibility and better readability.
Text Size Icons
Following different options are provided in the form of icons which are available on the top of each page:
Decrease text size: Allows to decrease the text size down to two levels.
Normal text size: Allows to set default text size.
Increase text size: Allows to increase the text size up to two levels.
Accessibility Options
Changing the Color Scheme
Changing the color scheme refers to applying a suitable background and text color that ensures clear readability.
There are two options provided to change the color scheme.
These are:
Default: applies white color as the background and black color to the foreground text to set the default contrast.
White on Black : Applies black color as the background and white color to the foreground text to improve readability.
Note: Changing the color scheme does not affect the images on the screen.
Do you need further help?
If you need further help, please contact us
header
PPT
SWF
