#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_pace_ccrs
Certificate Courses
CERTIFICATE IN COMPUTER BASICS & MULTILINGUAL TECHNOLOGY
Course code: CCB&MT
Duration (Part time): 1.5 Months
Total hours: 36
Course Benefits: The course focuses on computer fundamentals.
Who Should Attend: Those who have had no previous exposure to computers.
COURSE CONTENTS
Computer Fundamentals and Organisation
Components of a Computer
Introduction to Operating System
Various Windows OS
Networking
Internet
CERTIFICATE IN BHARATEEYA OPEN OFFICE
Course code: CBOO
Duration (Part time): 1 Months
Total Hours: 25
Course Benefits: In-depth training in using the BOO package on Windows & Linux platform.
This course helps in knowing the power of word processing, work sheet management presentation etc., in Indian languages and enables typing of letters, sending of e-mail, messages, computing of spread sheets setting formulas and presentation in various Indian languages.
Who Should Attend: Marketing executives, BPO’s, accounts personnel, doctors, lawyers and other professionals who wish to improve their overall productivity by understanding BOO and it's innovative features, with an additional facility to utilize the Indian language interface.
Writer (Word Processor)
Calc (Spread Sheet)
Impress (Presentation Tool)
Draw (Drawing function)
CERTIFICATE IN OFFICE AUTOMATION (MULTILINGUAL)
Course code: CMOA
Duration (Part time): 3 months
Total Hours: 82
Course Benefits: Get an in-depth training on the world's most popular packages and how they can be integrated using GIST Multi-lingual Technology.
The course also helps to learn automating and optimizing office admini-stration.
Who Should Attend: Marketing executives, accounts personnel, doctors, lawyers and other professionals who wish to improve their overall productivity by understanding Office 2007 and it's innovative features, with an additional facility to utilize the Indian language interface of GIST Multi-lingual Technology!
Importance of Word Processing under windows
Manual process v/s Electronic process
Advantages of Windows based Word Processing
Packages available under Windows or Indian languages
MS Office 2013 using ISM
Bharateeya Open Office
CERTIFICATE IN VISUAL BASIC.NET
Course code: CVB.NET
Duration (Part time): 2 months
Total Hours: 72
Course Benefits: Acquire skills needed to develop database applications using DOTNet Framework and debug and build files.
Learning how to build applications using window forms and other technologies without being lengthy.
Who Should Attend: Software developers, analysts, application developers, technical managers, or students interested in using Visual Basic.NET to develop database applications, and wanting to prototype, build and /or integrate Windows-based applications using Visual Basic NET.
DOTNET Framework and the VS.Net IDE
VB.net v/s VB6
.NET-Defined
Object Oriented Capabilities
Class and Properties
Threading Models
Creating of Windows Forms
VB.Net Controls, Format and User Interface Design Principles
File Handling in VB.net
ADO.NET
Working with Server Explorer, Data Form and Data Adapter Wizard
User Controls and Deploying VB.Net Application
Web Forms and Server Controls and COM Component
CERTIFICATE IN ORACLE 9i
Course code: COR
Course Benefits: The course provides a comprehensive introduction to use Oracle's SQL for database access, covering data manipulation and transaction management concepts.
Who Should Attend: Those interested in working with SQL in Oracle or other relational database products, including application developers, programmers, database admini-strators and managers.
No previous database experience is required.
Introduction to Database Concepts
Starting SQL*PLUS
Querying databases
Joining Tables & Subqueries
DDL commands
Other database objects
SQL *reports
Creating partitioned tables
Large objects
PL/SQL
Cursors and Exception handling
Subprogram in PL/SQL
Abstract data types
Nested tables and Varrays
Tuning SQL
Introduction to Oracle DBA
Oracle 9i
CERTIFICATE IN TALLY 9.0
Course code: TALLY9
Duration (Part time): 1.5 months
Total Hours: 36
Course Benefits: Acquire skills required to operate Tally Accounting Package, Report Generation, Taxation aspect etc.
Who Should Attend: Commerce Students, Accounts Personnel and other Professionals who are involved in accounting related activities can attend this course.
Tally9.0
Basic Concepts of Accounting
Accounting on Computers
Tally Fundamentals
Accounting principles of Trading and Manufacturing Organizations
Getting Functional with Tally
Budgeting
Multilingual Functionality
CERTIFICATE IN TALLY.ERP 9
Course code: C TALLYERP 9
Duration (Part time): 2/4 months
Total Hours: 96
Course Benefits: This course intend to provide training to manage Accounting, Finance, Inventory, Manufacturing, Payroll etc. This course offers a range of opportunities for employment seekers.
Who Should Attend: 12th Pass with Science/Arts/ Commerce
Basic Concepts of Accounting, Accounting on Computers
Data Maintenance
Inventory System
Invoicing
Auditing
Banking
Multi Account Inventory Reports
Point of Sales
CERTIFICATE IN ADVANCED PHP
Course code: CAPHP
Total Hours: 144
Course Benefits: PHP is an extremely popular open-source scripting language that allows complex operations to be executed in a hypertext environment.
This course gives depth training of Dynamic Web Development with use of latest technologies like Joomla with MySQL as backend.
Who Should Attend: HSC or Equivalent with programming back ground.
Contains of PHP
HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVA Script
CERTIFICATE IN BOSS & OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGIES
Course code: CBOSS&OT
Duration (Part time): 4 months
Course Benefits: This course provides in-depth training in open source operating system, BOSS linux that supports all Indian languages which is installed in computer systems in all Government departments and open office in Indian languages on windows & linux platform.
This course helps to know the features of open source technologies like supporting peripheral devices, desktop, laptops, Bio-sensing devices, digital signatures, etc. This course enables to learn to design and program in web applications using the latest tools and PHP.
Who Should Attend: UG Students / Graduates with Programming knowledge C, C++
OS Concepts,
Open Source Technologies,
BOSS LINUX, BOO,
HTML, PHP with Programming
CERTIFICATE IN ADOBE ILLUSTRATOR
Course code: CAIL
Course Benefits: This course will teach students the basics of this point-and-line design system, including such elements as artboard control, zooming and scrolling, using and customizing keyboard shortcuts and fine-tuning image transformations etc. and building custom shapes, modifying the artboard grid, adding and manipulating text, creating animations and taking advantage of the raster-conversion feature.
It is also geared towards various type of drawing, such as fashion design, cartography, cartooning or architectural drafting.
Since the vector design system is so flexible, Adobe Illustrator courses can be helpful to creative professionals in nearly any visual discipline.
Who Should Attend: SSC with artistic skills
Advanced Image Editing
Adobe Indesign
Working with Illustrator Documents
Painting with Illustrator
Working with Type
Printing Process
Saving and Importing Images
Practical
CERTIFICATE IN ADOBE PREMIER
Course Benefits: Adobe Premiere Pro Course is a part of Creative Cloud.
That means you have access to all the latest updates and future releases the moment they’re available.
You can use Sync Settings to keep your settings, workspaces, and keyboard shortcuts organized across multiple computers.
Sharpen your skills and master new tools with a rich and growing library of training videos.
And Creative Cloud is integrated with Behance, so you can share your projects and get immediate feedback from creative around the world.
Streaming Video Technology
Video Capturing
Multiple Sequences
Basic Editing Concepts and Tools
Capturing Audio
Transitions Using Audio Effects
Premiere Pro’s Audio Effects
Adobe Title Designer window
Analog and Digital Video
CERTIFICATE IN INDESIGN
Course code: CINDESIGN
Total Hours: 60
Course Benefits: Adobe InDesign is a page design software program that lets you design and release a broad range of documents in print, online and on mobile devices.
Accurate control over typography, built-in imaginative devices, and an intuitive design environment let you produce sensational page layouts much faster and more successfully.
In design is a widely-used software application program for design page, manufacturing and composition.
It is great for multi page projects such as magazines, brochures, newsletters or any tasks predestined for professional quality output such as PDF files and balance out printing presses.
Introduction to Adobe Indesign
The work area
The Control palette
The tools Platte
Basic navigation and typography, Working with graphics, Libraries, tables outlets, Multi page documents and text styles
CERTIFICATE IN MULTI-LINGUAL MULTIMEDIA
Course code: CMM
Course Benefits: This course gives basic training for candidates who enter into Multimedia industry.
Candidates learn all basic aspect of Graphics Design, Image Editing and professional Animation application Macromedia Flash along with GIST Technology.
This course enables candidates to gain knowledge in Graphics designing and Animation.
Basic Arts, Graphics,
File Formats,
Corel Draw, Photoshop,
Adobe Flash
CERTIFICATE IN AUTOCAD & 3D MAX
Course code: CCAD3DMX
Total Hours: 120
Course Benefits: The AutoCAD & 3D MAX course will cover all the essential tools that are commonly used and you will develop a hands-on knowledge of their application.
With 3D MAX you can produce professional 3D computer drawings of your ideas – projects, such as architectural, interior architecture, product design, furniture design projects etc. or any other ideas/projects you need to visualize from different angles for your client.
Who Should Attend: HSC and should be familiar with basic computer operations
Introduction to AutoCAD and Working with the Windows Environment
Basic CAD Drawing Techniques
Understanding Layers and Line types
Creating Basic Geometry
Annotating a Drawing with Text and Hatching
Drawing Accurately
Creating Selection Sets
Basic Editing Skills
Editing with Grips
Advanced Drawing Techniques
Dimensioning a Drawing
Modifying Object Characteristics
Using Symbols and Attributes
3D-Max Course Contents:
Basic 3D MAX Concepts
Working with 3D MAX Coordinates
Creating Surfaced Objects
Solid Modeling Concepts
Composite Solid Models
Working With Solid Models
Advanced 3D MAX Concepts
Plotting 3D Models
CERTIFICATE IN FLASH
Course code: CFLASH
Course Benefits: These courses will train you on how to get inventive with Adobe Flash’s drawing tools and spark life in to graphics via motion whilst integrating images, video and audio to build interactive experiences.
The Adobe Flash training courses at Academy Class are designed for first-time Adobe Flash users and are perfect for digital and traditional designers who want to create interactive web experiences.
Who Should Attend: SSC with artistic skills
Introduction to Adobe Flash,
Drawing tools in flash,
Brushes in flash,
Grouping and ungrouping,
What are symbols, Transform menu,
Tracing Bitmaps,
Symbols and Movie editing images,
Actions and event handlers,
Creating basic flash files,
Flash Movies,
Advanced Flash tutorials
Certificate in PHP & Word PRESS
Course code: CPHPWORDPRESS
WordPress is a free and open-source content management system (CMS) based on PHP and MySQL.
It has all the feature’s you need to build a professional website and with addition of code like HTML, JavaScript & CSS you can hard code your website for your needs, also the user has ability to change full theme of their site or create their own theme, with a platform like android WordPress is also total customizable, like the apps in android WordPress provides plugins which a user can use to generate anything like popup form, event, schedule an appointment etc.
Who should attend?
Course is designed for web developers/designers who wish to learn about WordPress, and for anyone wishing to incorporate WordPress into their web workflow.
Whether you are fresher seeking for job, a professional want to update his skill, start-up want to create one’s own website are welcome to join.
Course contents:
HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript
JOOMLA
Course duration: 4 months, 160 hrs
Certificate in Android
Course code: CIA
Course helps to develop skill in Open Source Mobile Application Development in depth.
It covers all aspects of Developing Mobile Application Independently.
This course is ideal for anyone looking to establish a career in Android app development.
This course is best suited for:-
Aspiring app developers seeking to master app development and gain professional competence
Web developers looking for a career change into Android app development
Students and other individuals looking to start a career in app development
JAVA Concepts
Introduction to Android
Android Application Structure
Emulator-Android Virtual Device
Basic UI design
Android Preferences, UI design
Tabs in Android
Styles & Themes in Android
ABD Tool, Adapters and Widgets
Custom components, Threads
Advanced Android
Internship Program in Android
Course duration: 4 months, 100 hrs
Certificate in Digital Finance
Course code: CDF
The Certified Course in Digital Finance is our foundational course on digital money, it covers all aspects of the digital payments and digital financial services ecosystem and value chain, beyond what one would normally find in a course on money and banking.
This course provides a high-level view of the various elements of digital financial services; it also provides practical thoughts and insights into key operational details and helps to map out a complex landscape.
This course has been developed for professionals who wish to gain a holistic understanding of digital payments and emerging digital financial services, particularly those working to accelerate a financial inclusion agenda.
The course also makes an excellent complement to organizational training and professional development goals, enabling individuals, teams and leaders to develop a stronger, more unified understanding of digital financial services.
Organizations with key goals related to digital financial services & financial inclusion are strongly encouraged to enrol.
Professional introduction to Advance Excel
Practical Introduction to Banking Payment Gateway
Digital Payment and Collection
Mobile Payment Interface
E- Wallet
Aadhaar UID mechanism and Linking
Accounts Reconciliation
Online Statutory Compliances
Cloud Application
Administration and Emergency response
Course duration: 3 months, 75 hrs
Certificate in Data Entry
Course code: CDE
Get an in-depth training in Computer basics, internet MS office package and develop data entry skill, data entry courses and certificate programs are available to prepare students for careers that require accurate entry of data, such as those in administrative assisting and word processing.
These courses are offered as general and also career-specific courses.
Those seeking a comprehensive education can pursue a certificate geared toward data entry clerks and others seeking office careers.
These courses and programs prepare students to accurately enter data, such as survey results or demographics, which can then be used to develop marketing, advertising, and sales plans.
Who should attend:  SSC
Computer Fundamentals and organisation
Typing Tutor
Internet
Basics of internet, network and E-mail
Data Entry / Typing computer.
Course duration: 2 months, 70 hrs
Certificate in Image Editing
Course code: CIE
This course will train you on how to get inventive with Photoshop, CorelDraw, InDesign and Adobe Illustrator
Who should attend:  SSC with artistic skills
Adobe Photoshop
Course duration: 3 months, 90 hrs
Certificate in Audio and Video Editing
Course code: CAVE
This course will help you to get in-depth training in Audio and Video Editing with latest software and technologies
Basics of Audio and Video Editing
Introduction and work with Sound Forge
Introduction and work with Adobe premier
header
