#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=sigma
SIGMA
GARUDA Sigma - A Comprehensive GARUDA Gridware Installation Package
GARUDA Sigma is a user-friendly grid installation package, conceived with an aim to unify all the tasks of installation and configuration of GARUDA Grid related softwares.
It takes care of hassle free installation for system administrators taking into account all the heterogeneity of GARUDA resources that involves software installations and pre and post configurations.
The GARUDA Sigma is a very useful tool that can automatically deploy and configure the resources even from a remote location.
BROAD OBJECTIVES GARUDA SIGMA ARE,
Support Automatic Deployment of grid software and middleware
Support Automatic deployment of patches and upgrades
Remote deployment from central administration
Check for dependencies among software
The list of softwares deployed using GARUDA Sigma is illustrated in the figure below.
ADVANTAGES OF GARUDA Sigma are,
Helps in seamless integration of GARUDA grid partners
Helps system administrators for software installation and pre and post configurations taking into account all the heterogeneity of GARUDA resources.
Frees the grid administrators from the hassles of manual installations and caters both remote and/or on-site installation.
Emulates the popular desktop installer approach, hiding the complexities of the grid
Contains Base software, GARUDA Grid middleware, grid access ware, application development tools and CDAC grid suite installation at one go.
UNIQUE FEATURES OF GARUDA Sigma are,
It is user friendly.
It has a provision for remote installation as well as on-site installation through CD.
Performs check for the availability of base software along with the version required for individual components installation.
Checks for availability of disk space before installing.
Optimize the installation, if abruptly exited.
It keeps track of the last component installed and continues the installation from there on.
Automatically writes the required environmental variables in a configuration file to be sourced before using the software.
Proper message or error messages will be displayed to the user.
Any installation that has to be done manually will be provided with shell and on completion the installation resumes from there on.
USERS OF GARUDA Sigma
It is targeted for System Administrators/ Deployment teams at Grid partners (with/ without resources providers) on both head and compute nodes.
AVAILABILITY OF GARUDA Sigma
GARUDA Sigma CD's are available on request by sending an email to ssg@cdacb.ernet.in with 'GARUDA Sigma' as subject line or can be downloaded from GARUDAINDIA website through partner’s login.
RELEASES OF GARUDA Sigma
GARUDA Sigma Version 1.0 was developed for installing Globus version 2.4.3.
Version 1.2 focus on upgraded version of Globus – 4.0.2 and inclusion of Virtual Network Computing (VNC ) Viewer and Postgres SQL along with the components available in the previous version.
FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS OF GARUDA Sigma
The future enhancements to GARUDA Sigma is to incorporate Mobile Agent technology to automate the installation whenever a new node adds up to GARUDA network or any hardware of software updates with the existing nodes.
header
