#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mc_et_balshiksha
Balshiksha
Balshiksha (A Pre-Primary Teacher's Resource Kit) in English & Hindi
Balshiksha (A Pre-Primary Teacher's Resource Kit) is a comprehensive e-Learning package for the children in the age group of 1.6 years to 5.6 years.
This application is available on multiple platforms like CD, Web & Mobile (MMC & WAP).
The major emphasis is to acquire, garner and teach about the activities and related information in the immediate surroundings, which are required for developing simple to complex skills in children.
With the help of these resource kits, children would develop their communication skills in English & Hindi.
To provide the overall and holistic development of the child this includes different kinds of physical, social, psychological, emotional, cognitive and moral development.
Balshiksha package is categorized into four groups:
Play Group
Pre Nursery
Lower KG
Upper KG
Salient Features:
The Application would be provided with the facility to train the children with the help of Audio, Video, Graphics and Animations.
Ability to read and write through phonic sounds and pattern work.
Ability to form two letters, three letters, four letters words and simple sentence formations.
Introduction to the Number system and simple Arithmetic.
Content and lessons are written to improve and develop the communication skills in the children.
Language skills are taught using various participatory and learning methods/techniques.
Children will be introduced to various fun games and exercises along with some common guidelines to the parents and the teachers.
General Knowledge, Moral Science, Discipline and Good Habits, etc is also taught.
Each lesson would be followed by exercises to evaluate children skills and learning abilities.
Plenty of sketches of different objects (simple to complex) are provided with a print option to explore the children to the creative world of drawing and coloring.
Relevant objects of each lesson are kept in Library for prior recognition and understanding of objects & terminology, before exploring the children to the actual lesson.
Allows parents and teachers to save selected/required lessons to browse/refer directly.
Search facility helps the teachers/parents to choose a particular topic/lesson instantly.
Allows the parents and teachers to take the print outs of the selected lessons, charts, images, etc. and children can practice on the same at home.
This is more handy and used as quick reference to a lesson/topic.
Simple & easy to understand exercises to allow a student to learn & practice different modules.
Contact Us
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
header
balshiksha
rabbit
video
video2
library
alphabet
