#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_AR_TRAEN_Workshop_2015
TRAEN 2015
Training on Mobile Augmented Reality Applications for EducatioN (TRAEN - 2015)
Date: 15 April 2015
About C-DAC
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is the premier R&D organization of the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY), Ministry of Communications & Information Technology (MCIT) for carrying out R&D in IT, Electronics and ICT technologies, traversing an array of multi technological domains to cater to the emerging needs of the nation.
C-DAC established a Mobile Application Research and System lab (MARS lab) in the year 2011, to carry out advanced research in Augmented Reality on popular mobile platforms.
A wealth of knowledge has been amassed by the MARS lab team prompting us to undertake knowledge dissemination activities and consolidation of software components in the form of frameworks and applications.
About AR in Education
Augmented reality (AR) is cutting-edge technology that allows the smart device users for a digitally enhanced view of the real world.
Since AR is a perception domain technology, AR adds layers of digital information like videos, photos, sounds, and 3D virtual content using camera and sensors in a smartphone or tablet and generates a composite view for the user that is the combination of the real scene viewed by the user and a virtual scene generated by the device.
Augmented reality applications can complement a standard curriculum.
Text, graphics, video and audio can be superimposed into a student’s real time environment.
Textbooks, flashcards and other educational reading material can contain embedded “markers” that, when scanned by an AR device, produce supplementary information to the student rendered in a multimedia format.
Augmented reality technology also permits learning via remote collaboration, in which students and instructors not at the same physical location can share a common virtual learning environment populated by virtual objects and learning materials and interact with each other.
There is an ample scope for enhancing the learning/teaching experiences of the users with AR based learning environments.
AR makes learning an enjoyable experience by providing more realistic information with the use of 2D/3D graphics and animated models.
About the training
This training focuses on introducing development of augmented reality applications on android for creating more interactive and informative learning environments.
In order to reduce limitations and complexity of implementing Augmented Reality applications, this training will provide an opportunity for the participants to get familiar with simple to use and elegant implementation tools and frameworks developed by MARS lab for the benefit of education community.
Training Outline
Overview of Augmented Reality Technology in learning and education.
Demonstration of Augmented Reality framework in learning environment developed by C-DAC.
Hands on Augmented Reality Book application and Learning framework.
Discussion on new use-cases in application areas like interactive learning, gaming and others.
Panel discussions and Future directions
Target participants/Audience
Industry professionals, Academicians, Research scholars, content developers, Book authors and publishers.
Exposure on basic Computer skills and usage of mobile applications.
Registration Details
Online Registration is open from 23rd March 2015.
Registration will be based on first come first serve basis as the seats are limited.
Academician’s registrations will be confirmed by mail.
Non-academicians registrations will be confirmed by mail only after successful payment of the fee.
Registration Fees
No Fee
Other Participants
Rs. 1000/-
Mode of Payment
DD/ Cheque in favour of "C-DAC Bangalore", payable at Bangalore along with completely filled online registration form.
Or
Through RTGS / NEFT details are as follows:
Bank details for RTGS/NEFT
Name
C-DAC, BANGALORE
Name of the Bank
STATE BANK OF MYSORE
Branch / Address of Bank
NGEF Branch
Account No:
Account type:
SAVING
IFSC of Bank:
SBMY0040223
MICR code of Bank:
Registration URL : http://bit.ly/cdac-traen2015
Note: Participants need to take care of their own transportation and accommodation during the training period.
However, assistance can be provided upon request to help participants to find nearby hotel / accommodation.
For more information and clarifications contact
Ms. Smitha / Ms.Ramya
Coordinators - Training on mobile Augmented reality applications for Education (TRAEN)
C-DAC Knowledge Park, No.1,
Old Madras Road, Byappanahalli,
Bangalore - 560038, INDIA
(O) 080-66116464/66116459.
Fax: +91-80-25247724
e-mail: traen2015@cdac.in,  marslab@cdac.in
Route Map: http://goo.gl/s5msvj
Download Workshop Brochure
header
