#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_his_Sushrut_Register_Enquiry
Sushrut Enquiry
E-Sushrut
Out-Patient Management
Investigations
Billing
Operation Theatre
Blood Bank
Registration
Enquiry
Master Management
Central Sterile Services
Diet Kitchen
Bio-Medical Engineering
Central Stores
Pharmacy Management
Patient Medical Records
This module provides information about all the enquires received regarding the hospital and the patients admitted or registered in the hospital.
The details of the utilities are outlined in the later part of the write up.
This module is depends on the following:
Appointment
In-patients
Out-Patient Management
Salient Features:
Holiday Enquiry: Provides information of the days the institution is not working.
This allows the flexibility of freezing the activities of some of the departments for a particular day.
Appointments for investigation of the patient are not given for that day when the institution or the department has been declared as not working.
Patient Enquiry: This option can be selected to gather further information of the patient, like: Patient status, Patients name, and Address.
However if multiple addresses are mentioned, the query can be done only of the first address.
Other demographic details can also be obtained.
Appointments Enquiry: This option can be selected for checking the appointment status of a patient.
This enables in finding out the day the patient is having an appointment in various departments.
This can be used only for the OPD appointments.
Investigation Appointment Enquiry: This option can be selected for checking the appointment status of a patient.
This will help in finding out, the days the patient is having an appointment in various departments.
This can be used only for the Investigation appointments.
Consultants Enquiry: This option can be used to enquire about the consultants available in the hospital.
This search is based on the Name, Qualification, Specialization, Designation and Department of the Consultant.
This form also displays the telephone number of the consultants.
Tariff Enquiry: This option can be used to enquire about the tariffs of the hospital.
The tariff is broadly classified into test, anesthesia, wards, operations, general, and procedures.
The tariffs are classified into departments.
In this form the query can be done on the above mentioned classifications.
Investigation Enquiry: This gives the details regarding the investigations performed in a particular department/lab.
The enquiry can be made on the basis of the Department, Lab, Investigation Name, Preparation Days required, Availability (whether the investigation is available or not.).
Appointment Status - whether the appointment can be given by any department or by the concerned department only.
In-patient Enquiry: Given a department and ward number this will list the names of all the patients admitted in that particular department.
In this the enquiry can be done also on the basis of the Bed Number, Bed Type (General/ Private), Allotment date, and the Identification number of the patient.
OPD Roster Enquiry: Provides information regarding the working days of OPD and their Units.
For Further Details Please Contact:
Health Informatics Division
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-3063314
email: pksrivastava [at] cdac [dot] in
header
