#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=hi_dss_decision_support_systems
C-DAC Decision Support Systems
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Health Informatics
Automatic EEG Analyzer for Neurological Disorder Detection [EEG Analyzer]
Epilepsy is a major health problem in developing countries and is the third most common neurological disorder affecting more than 50 million people worldwide.
The prevalence of active epilepsy in India varies from 3.4 to 5.4 per thousand.
Epilepsy is a condition in which a person has spontaneously recurring seizures.
Ayusoft - a Decision Support System for Ayurveda
AyuSoft is software developed with a vision to convert classical Ayurvedic texts into comprehensive, authentic, intelligent and interactive knowledge repositories with complex analytical tools.
It supports Constitution (Physiological and Psychological) and Tissue Quality Assessment, Disease Diagnostics and Treatment, Diet and Lifestyle Advice, Personal Information Management System, Multimedia based Encyclopaedia and Textual and Graphical Analytical Reports.
More »
CerviSCAN - AI based Cervical Cancer Screening
CerviSCAN is an automated system for early detection and screening of cervical cancer by analysing digitized PAP smear.
Computer Aided Detection (CAD) System for Mammograms
"CAD for Mammograms" is a solution by C DAC for breast cancer screening at early cancer detection centres.
Diabetic Retinopathy Identification Software for Timely Intervention
Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) is the damage caused to retina by complications of diabetes which can eventually lead to blindness.
DR affects up to 40% of all patients who have had diabetes for 15 years or more.
DRISTI, using state-of-the-art image analysis algorithms, analyses retinal fundus images for DR lesions and direct DR suspicious cases for detailed ophthalmologist review.
DR negative cases are screened out without ophthalmologist intervention.
telmeCare - EMR and Telemedicine Solution
'telmeCare' provides facility to create Electronic Medical Record of patients for tele-consultation from specialty hospital to understaffed remote hospitals and rural villages using information and communication technologies.
eSmear
Image Acquisition Software for Cervical Smears
iCare@Home
In line with the Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations and the mandate of National Rural Health Mission (NRHM, India), C-DAC has developed iCare@home solution to empower households and even the rural populace having weak public health indices and infrastructure, with comprehensive knowledge of primary healthcare.
iCare@home is a suite of Integrative healthcare informatics solutions with applications like risk predictors, symptoms analyzer and computer games.
It is targeted to create health awareness among individuals and communities by Analysis, Prediction and Edutainment through holistic solutions for promotive health, disease prevention and primary care of diseases and symptoms.
iCare@Home introduces health games which are a perfect blend of health education and entertainment for varied age-groups.
mCAD - CAD for Mammograms
According to GLOBOCAN 2012, Breast Cancer is the most common cancer among women with nearly 1.7 million new cases.
Breast cancer is curable if detected at an early stage.
mCAD is a solution for breast cancer screening at early cancer detection centers.
The system will analyze X-ray images (mammograms) of breast to detect lesions indicative of malignancy.
Mobile Telemedicine
C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram has developed and implemented Mobile Telemedicine systems which are operational for many years.
Diabetic Retinopathy Identification Software for Timely Intervention
Presently the ratio of ophthalmologist to general population is 1 : 80,000 which makes it nearly impossible to implement screening programs manually with human expertise alone..
SRISTI
SRISTI is a software system for 3D visualization of CT and MRI Images.
It is DICOM compliant and supports STL file format for creating physical models of anatomical parts & prosthetic implants through rapid Prototyping process.
ViEW - Virtual Endoscopy
Colorectal cancer is one of the leading cancers affecting both men and women.
Early stages of colon cancer occur as polyps along the inner lining of the colon surface.
This can be prevented if these colon polyps are early detected and removed.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Hospital Information Systems
Drug Management System
Telemedicine Solutions
Healthcare Standards
Mobile Healthcare Solutions
EHR/EMR Systems
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, February 27, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
