#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=lu_mgaviewer
MGAViewer: Multiple Genome Alignment Viewer
Introduction
"-Omics analysis" of related species based on comparing genomic features is the need of the hour, as, current high throughput genomics technologies are generating large quantities of high dimensional meta-data.
The challenge lies in capturing, modeling, integrating and analysing these data in order to provide systematic insights into complex biological systems.
Computational approaches to genome comparison have recently become a common research topic in computer science, wherein, understanding gene function, gene regulation, gene networks, phylogenetic studies and other aspects of evolution depend on accurate nucleic acid and protein sequence alignment.
To understand and analyze such plethora of humongous data, the computational biologist requires high-end specialized computing clusters which can scale applications and algorithms addressing the need of the hour for timely analysis of data with appropriate storage capacities and high-end efficient visualizers.
Product
To address above-mentioned challenges we have developed a visualization tool viz., MGA-viewer.
It is a multiple genome alignment viewer which highlights via pictorial depiction of the conserved and variant regions in prokaryotic genomes.
Such a tool aids in providing valuable insights to study evolutionary biology and understand the genome dynamics where events such as gene duplications, insertions, deletions and inversions can be effectively captured.
MGAViewer: Overview
Enables visualization of alignment in the context of genome annotation which is valuable for biological interpretation.
Functional relationships can be mapped using conserved and variant genomic regions, which can be studied in detail.
Faster data reading using db storage as compared to cumbersome browsing from flat files.
Implementation Details
MGAViewer is a stand-alone client which is supported on Linux as well as Windows OS.
This Package is Available on CD.
Contact
Dr. Rajendra Joshi (HoD)
HPC-MBA, C-DAC, Pune.
Phone No: 020-25704196, mailId: braf-help [at] cdac [dot] in
header
Inclus
