#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_pr_prs_rl233
Accelerating Biology 2017: Delivering Precision
January 17, 2017
Pune
Biology is incredibly complex, but as our understanding of molecular systems and subsystems increases, our ability to model their behavior also advances.
Large volumes of biological data generated needs to be analyzed at an extremely rapid rate to transform this data into usable knowledge.
The challenge to modern Bioinformatics is to accelerate such processes of information retrieval, integration and analysis with high precision.
High Performance Computing (HPC) gives a tremendous opportunity to explore and model the complexity of biology at a very high precision.
One of the end goals is, Precision medicine, which promises a transformative era of personalized health, with customized treatments and diagnostics tailored to each individual's unique biology.
The "Accelerating Biology 2017 - Delivering Precision" symposium aims to provide a forum to bring together scientists and technologists to chart the path towards delivering precision.
The symposium will be held during 17-19 Jan 2017 at Pune.
Focus areas for the symposium are : Emerging areas in Computational Drug Design, Molecular Dynamics Simulations: Witnessing rare events, Next Generation Sequencing: Disease Implications, Metabolic networks and Systems Biology, BIGDATA driven Biology, BRAF User: Case Studies
Two product developed by Bioinformatics Team will be released during this event viz. DPICT version and NEURON
Structural Biology has been greatly benefited by high end computational modelling and simulation techniques.
The new technology enablers along with variety of enhanced sampling simulation algorithms can run multiple simulations simultaneously and are capable of generating large size molecular trajectories.
The Visualization of these multiple simulation trajectory data poses a challenge to the researchers and needs to be addressed in an accelerated and efficient way.
The Bioinformatics Team at C-DAC has developed a version tool viz. DPICT for parallel visualization of multiple trajectories obtained from simulations.
DPICT version currently supports amber and gromacs trajectory formats.
It also supports the universally accepted pdb format.
The key feature of DPICT is to load multiple trajectory files simultaneously and view them together and perform operations on them.
Various rendering options are available for the structures viz. ribbon, cartoon and wire.
These rendering options can be set for selective residues also.
Various colour coding schemes for the structures according to the users' choice are also incorporated.
DPICT is available as distributable file along with installation instructions and Help documentation.
Biological data interpretation in light of previous experiments can add significant interpretative power, especially given the limitations of small sample size in many omics experiments.
To discover novel biology, one needs to know what is already known, understand what hypotheses need refinement and what phenomena remain unexplained.
Causal Reasoning Methodology is apt for understanding and unraveling novel relationships.
It is the process of identifying causality: the relationship between a cause and its effect.
NEURON: NEtwork relationship Using causal ReasONing is an tool developed by Bioinformatics Team at C-DAC, focussing on deriving gene regulatory networks.
A gene regulatory network is the collection of genes/molecules and their interactions, which together control their functionality.
Inferring causal relationships from large biological datasets holds great promise in uncovering novel biological insights.
An easy to use interface has been developed for domain expert to avoid technical intricacies.The tool is available as a distributable executable.
For more details, please contact:
Media & Communications Group , ,
E-Mail: mac [at] cdac [dot] in
Phone: (020) 25704218
header
