#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=lu_scada_automation
Capacity building through internship in the area of SCADA & Automation
The two months internship under the project "Capacity building through internship in the area of SCADA & Automation" conceived under the leadership of Dr. Hemant Darbari, Director General and the expert guidance of Shri GL Ganga Prasad, Senior Director & Centre Head and Shri BS Bindhumadhava , Senior Director, RTS & IoT, C-DAC, Bangalore successfully concluded at C-DAC Bangalore on 20th July 2018.
The objective of the project was to conduct internship programme to students pursuing their undergraduate/post-graduate/research (BTech, MTech) in the area of SCADA & AUTOMATION.
This internship was to provide students wishing to pursue a career in SCADA domain a solid foundation with relevant knowledge and experience.
This would assist in training and developing productive human workforce in the area of SCADA which is very much essential in our country.
Professor HP Khincha Ex Vice Chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University, Shri G L Ganga Prasad, Senior Director & Centre Head, C-DAC Bangalore were present for the valedictory function which was held on 20th July 2018.
Shri R K Senthil Kumar, Joint Director presented the welcome address, Shri GL Ganga Prasad, Prof H P Khincha and Shri B S Bindhumadhava addressed the students and distributed the completion certificates to the students.
Shri Lagineni Mahendra presented the vote of thanks during the function.
The 2 months internship is conducted both at C-DAC, Bangalore (1 month) and C-DAC, Silchar (1 month).
This year (2018) around 221 applications were received and 36 students were shortlisted and undertook the internship program.
Students from various North East colleges such as IIIT Guwahati, NIT Agartala, NIT Meghalaya, NIT Sikkim, NIT Silchar, Tezpur University, DUIET, Dibrugarh university, NIT Manipur, GUIST Guwahati, IIIT Manipur and Assam University have participated in the internship program.
Students with Speakers & Faculties
Chief Guest Prof H P Kincha with Shri G L Ganga Prasad,
Senior Director & Centre Head and Shri B S Bindhumadhava Senior
header
