#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_pcftp_2014_main
"GPU Programming and Applications
Three Days National Workshop
on
(GPA3-2014)
Jointly organized
by
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Guwahati,
CUDA Centre of Excellence (CCOE), IIT-Bombay, Mumbai,
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune &
NVIDIA Corporation
Venue:  IIT-Guwahati
Date:
September 12 -September 14 2014
GPA3-2014 Registration is open till 10th September 2014.
NVIDIA Corporation, USA has recently designated IIT Guwahati as a CUDA Teaching Center (CTC).
IIT Guwahati, CUDA Center of Excellence (CCOE) of IIT Bombay, C-DAC, Pune and NVIDIA Corporation, are jointly conducting the Third National Level Workshop on GPU Programming and Applications (GPA3-2014) during 12th – 14th September 2014 at IIT Guwahati.
GPA2-2014 is a three day workshop on heterogeneous parallel computing.
GPA2-2014 is aimed at enriching the skills of students, faculty, and researchers with cutting-edge techniques and hands-on experience in developing applications for many-core processors, with massively parallel computing resources like GPU accelerators.
GPA3-2014 is a three day workshop on heterogeneous parallel computing.
GPA3-2014 is aimed at enriching the skills of students, faculty and researchers with cutting-edge techniques and hands-on experience in developing applications for many-core processors, with massively parallel computing resources like GPU accelerators.
Introduce techniques/ tools available based on NVIDIA's CUDA environment.
1.Enable participants to quickly get started with writing their own parallel codes on GPGPU.
2.Provide hands-on experience in parallel programming.
3.These special sessions will provide the rich hands-on experience with various languages and tools covered in the lectures.
4.They comprise a brief introduction to the programming assignments, followed by independent work periods.
5.To help with the assignments, teaching assistants will be available in person and via the web.
6.Present case studies from different application domains.
Email :
Dr. Gaurav Trivedi trivedi@iitg.ernet.in Department of Electronics and Electrical Engg.
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati
Dr. Aryabartta Sahu asahu@iitg.ernet.in Department of Computer Science
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati
header
