#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_hypack13_mode02_arm_proc_lab_overview
hyPACK-2013
About
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
ARM Processor
Mode-2 ARM
Prog.Env.
Benchmarks
Power Perf.
Home
hyPACK-2013 : Mode-2 (ARM Coprocessor ) Laboratory : Topics
Topics dealing with all practical and experimental aspects of various programming paradigms are considered and example programs are made available to the participants in the laboratory session.
The  hyPACK-2013 Mode-2  programme covers an overview of   ARM   microprocessor technology which address the performance, power and cost requirements for almost all applications.
ARM development platform featuring NVIDIA Tegra processors are being used in HPC.
ARM platforms with CUDA parallel programming toolkit, provides the foundation for developers to build out the ARM HPC application ecosystem.
The CARMA DevKit features the NVIDIA Tegra 3 Quad-core ARM A9 CPU and the NVIDIA Quadro 1000M GPU with 96 CUDA cores.
It offers HPC developers a simple way to create CUDA applications for GPU-accelerated systems with ARM processors.
The topics such as Tuning and Performance Issues, Power Consumption for Application Kernels, Measurement of Power Consumption - using External Power-Off-Meter, and Programming on ARM processor multi-core processor systems will be discussed.
Participants will get an opportunity to  walk-through  and  execute  some of the programs designed for   Mode-2   of this workshop.
To understand scalability and performance of selective scientific and engineering or commercial applications, minor or substantive modification of the  hyPACK-2013  software programs may be required.
Efforts are on to include State-of-the-Art Multi-Core Coprocessor ARM Systems as well as NVIDIA CUDA - carma DevKit - GPU based acclerator Servers in  hyPACK-2013  laboratory in order to understand measurement of power consumption and performance issues for large scale application kernels.
Mode-2 Performance - ARM Multi-Core Processors
ARM Processors - An Overview of Architecture & programming environment
Software Multi-threading & System Overview of threading
Parallel Processing - An Overview of Programming (POSIX Threads, Intel TBB, OpenMP)
Tuning & Performance of Application kernels using NVIDIA carma DevKIt
Performance Issues of OpenMP 3.X & Pthread Programming on ARM Processors
Measure Power Consumption and Performance of Benchmarks using CUDA enabled NVIDIA GPUs - carma DevKit.
Laboratory Session Mode-1 (Two days)
Programming exercises for Numerical and Non-Numerical Computations based on MPI, Pthreads, OpenMP, Java Concurrent APIs, & Mixed programming
Numerical Computations (Dense Matrix Computations, Sparse Matrix Computations), Non-Numerical Computations (Sorting & Search algorithms)
Tuning & Performance - Selective Application Kernels & System Benchmarks on ARM Processors
header
