#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=dl_mlingual_tools
Multilingual Tools
Linguistic Translator Workbench
Need
The GIST- Linguistic Translator Workbench has been designed to cater for a heavy demand for assisting translators in undertaking fast localization of documents and web content.
GIST-Linguistic Translator workbench is powerful and easy to use translation editor equipped with built-in translation assets like Prediction engine, Named Entity Identification and Tagging, Transliteration, Translation Memories, Glossary, WordNet to name a few.
This makes the translation process simple and reduces the time for doing the actual translation.
Translators can to name a few.
Key Features in Brief:
Online as well as Offline Mode
Translator and Reviewer Mode
Segment Status for Translator as well as Reviewer.
Translator assisted by
Mark and Transliteration with tagging
Indian language auto complete
Leveraging machine translation webservices
Synonym with Wordnet as a service
Generic quality check (length, space , symbol , digit, Unicode)
Indian language Typing
Onscreen Keyboard
Importing Translation Memory
AutoSave
Validator mode
Additional support for SAE J2450 Quality Metric
Supports
Universally accepted standard XLIFF file format
auto-update
Download
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 196.1 MB, Date: 22/07/2019)
Tirhuta Typing Tool
Tirhuta Typing tool is primarily for creation of documents in Tirhuta script.
It supports Unicode and so documents thus created will be easily viewed properly on any Unicode enabled operating systems such as Windows 10.On-screen keyboards for Tirhuta language are also provided in this tool to make typing more easy.Gist-Tirhuta Font is part of this tool.
System support:
Windows 10
(File Type: WinRAR ZIP, File Size: 24.1 MB, Date: 12/07/2018)
Indian Language Text-To-Speech (TTS) Add-In for LibreOffice
TTS Add-in for LibreOffice is developed by C-DAC, GIST.
It internally uses underlying service which is developed under TTS consortium project, supported by TDIL-MeitY.
Currently 8 Indian languages: Bengali, Hindi, Gujarati, Marathi, Malayalam, Kannada, Telugu and Tamil are supported.
Indian language Text-To-Speech Add-In for LibreOffice , gives the power of speech to Writer document.
On click of a button, user can listen to the selected text in the LibreOffice writer.
It specifically helps persons with dyslexia and persons who understand the language but cannot read the script or are not convenient with the script of that language.
Supported on Windows 7 onward with LibreOffice 4.0 and 5.0
(File Type: WinRAR ZIP, File Size: 8.22 MB, Date: 12/02/2016)
Multilingual dictionary- Mobile app
Dictionaries are contributed by consortia with TDIL support.
These dictionaries were internal for training and fine tuning of various tools/ projects like Machine Translation System , Cross Lingual Information Access etc. Some of the contents are tuned to such specific requirements and some words may not be relevant as dictionary.
However, the same is provided to end user for reference only.
The interface to access the data is provided by C-DAC, GIST
Android 4.4.4 and above
(File Type: apk, File Size: 16.6 MB, Date: 12/02/2016)
Unicode Typing Tool
This is typing software, which enables typing of Indian Languages in editors of Windows based applications with Unicode complaint font.
It supports typing in Assamese, Bangla, Boro, Dogri, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Malayalam, Marathi, Manipuri, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Sindhi, Santali, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu.
Along with Sakal Bharati font this typing tool contains two open type fonts for each language and the list of fonts is available in supporting document.
On-screen keyboards for each language are also provided in this tool to make typing more easy.
Unicode Typing Tool now supports iWriting - Predictive typing feature with Inscript Keyboard which currently supports 10 languages like Assamese, Bangla, Boro, Hindi, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu.
It provides multiple options for auto-completion of word.
It also comes with intelligent self-learning feature.
System requirements:
Windows 7 & above.
Microsoft office 2007 and above.
Open office/ Libre office 4 and above
(File Type: WinRAR ZIP, File Size: 29.9 MB, Date: 12/02/2016)
ISM Basic
ISM from C-DAC GIST is the acronym for Intelligent Script Manager.
ISM Basic is latest addition to the popular family of ISM products from GIST Research Labs.
More
SakalBharati Font
Sakal Bharati is a Unicode based Open Type font which includes 13 scripts in one font i.e. Assamese, Bengali, Devanagari, Gujarati, Kannada Malayalam, Meetei Mayek, Oriya, Ol Chiki, Punjabi, Telugu, Tamil & Urdu.
It is a Monothick font wherein the Glyphs have equal thickness of the horizontal and vertical stems.
The Font has same X height for all 13 scripts, which caters to almost all the 22 scheduled languages of India.
It is a single font having more than 3698 glyphs.
The glyphs across the languages are designed to have matching styles including English.
more »
Download:
Download Font
Download (File Type: WinRAR ZIP, File Size: 1.0MB, Date: 28/05/2015)
Download Sakal Bharati source code
Unified Virtual Keyboard for Indian Languages on Android Platform
CDAC - GIST is pleased to offer Indian language Keyboard for Android devices.
This keyboard driver supports 22 official Indian language (s) inputting using enhanced INSCRIPT standard layout.
English inputting is also made possible without a need to switch between the Android native English keyboards.
Installtion manual
(File Type: PDF, File Size: 69.1 KB)
Centre of Excellence in Marathi - downloads
The purpose of this center is to assist Government of Maharashtra and its various consulting bodies on various issues related to Marathi Language computing.
Some of the tools and font made available for usage are available here.
TARSEEL
TARSEEL allows user to convert third party (In Page) text files to UNICODE text files
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 1.92 MB, Date:26/03/2014)
Enhanced INSCRIPT standard (Proposed)
Enhanced INSCRIPT keyboard layout 5.1
You can mail to: enhancedinscript-feedback@cdac.in
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 300 KB, Date:25/07/2014)
Policy Documents for IDN
Policy Document for Creation of Language Information for Internationalized Domain Names in Indian Languages
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 4.06 MB, Date:13/08/2014)
INSCRIPT Keyboard Tutor
his is a DOS based utility meant for learning to use INSCRIPT keyboard layout.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 318 KB, Date:16/02/2009)
GIST OT Typing SDK
The GIST OT Typing SDK is a software development tool for Indian languages on MS Windows.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 2.66 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
GLite
GIST Light Weight Components for Applications based on Internet Explorer.
This download is an Evaluation version.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 2.10 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
Chitrankan
The first OCR (Optical Character Recognition) system for Indian Languages.
It archives Indian Language content in electronic form through OCR.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 10.0 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
Document on ISCII
This is an extract from the document on Indian Standard Code for Information Interchange.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 220 KB, Date:16/02/2009)
GIST-SDK
The windows based application development kit for Indian languages is available for you to evaluate.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 20.6 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
iPlugin
This is an Indian language Web application development tool for interactive applications which achieves browser independence for MS Windows based clients.
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 10.1 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
LISM
Linux based application for Indian languages
Debian LISM
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 1.69 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
Redhat LISM
(File Type: ZIP, File Size: 1.72 MB, Date:16/02/2009)
Typeface Catalogue
This is a softcopy of our typefaces.
INSCRIPT Keyboard Tutor
This is a DOS based utility meant for learning to use INSCRIPT keyboard layout.
Updates
Your source to the updates for various softwares offered by GIST.
header
