#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot1202
Colleges in Goa may have supercomputers
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
The Navhind Times
February 16, 2018
College students in Goa may soon have access to supercomputers with the government showing its readiness to collaborate with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing for placing supercomputers in colleges for high-end research.
Speaking at the launch of C-DAC's latest supercomputer 'Param Shavak-virtual reality' on Thursday, IT and Revenue Minister Rohan Khaunte said, "Today supercomputing has gained a lot of importance in research and development.
We are ready to consider taking new technologies like supercomputing and virtual reality to every college of Goa."
"We want our students to learn futuristic technologies as they prepare for newer challenges in the future, " he said at the two-day national Param Shavak users’ summit, which got underway on Thursday.
The advanced version of the supercomputer Param Shavak run on virtual reality was launched at the summit.
"The Goa government is already using the Gauri software (solutions for department of stamps and registration).
New technologies like Param Shavak-VR will help us move ahead in the technology domain, " Khaunte observed.
According to director general, C-DAC, Dr Hemant Darbari, the latest supercomputer promises to take the entire experience of research and learning to a new level through interactive VR experiences like simulation.
"With this compact system, users can extend their reach beyond the traditional domains of design manufacturing and entertainment.
Furthermore, the machine can be used in healthcare for drug discovery research in the area of cancer, battle theatre simulation for defence (battle inoculation) advertising and education, " Dr Darbari said.
The latest version of the supercomputer has been launched in Goa because there are existing users of Param Shavak and there are potential buyers interested in this machine, he said.
The Goa University has two Param Shavaks while, the NIT Goa is in the process of acquiring two machines.
C-DAC is in talks with the BITS Pilani-Goa.
"It shows that there was high potential for usage of the machine in Goa.
The launch of the supercomputer will provide opportunity for the existing users and potential buyers to come under one roof and evaluate its future potential, " Dr Darbari added.
The Param Shavak-VR is not just useful for drug discovery or defence simulation but also in automobile engineering and archaeology.
"Ancient extinct kingdoms like Dwarka and civilisations like Harappa can be recreated by visualising the original structures using simulators providing multidimensional images, " said Dr Darbari.
The supercomputer was launched in the presence of NIT-Goa director Gopal Mugeraya, C-DAC officials and heads of education and research institutions.
Mugeraya said the first of the Param Shavak will be delivered to NIT-Goa on March 9, 2018.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, February 19, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
