#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot965
IT awareness session for govt school students
The Times of India
July 04, 2015
The IT Department on Friday conducted an exclusive one-day awareness session for the students of government high school, Sector 50, on information security and education.
This training is first in the series to be conducted in schools under the Digital India Week initiative.
The objective of the session was to make students well versed with the cyber threats and attacks that has increased manifold in the past few years.
The highlight of the session was to make students aware of the basic knowledge and terminologies of the cyber threats and encourage them to have basic skills to counter these so that they are safe from cyber predators.
During this interactive session, the faculty also delivered a presentation about cyber crimes and how to protect themselves from cyber hazards and students were given live examples how to be cautious while browsing internet, and should use their presence of mind like "I stop Before I Download", "I think before I Click" and My password Mixes (#UMBERS & $SYMBOL#).
Since this session was interactive, students were encouraged to share their internet experience & knowledge.
Faculty also addressed the queries of students related to anti-virus, cyber threats and measures to prevent cyber threats and opting IT as their career.
This session was delivered by Mr. Harpreet Faculty from C-DAC, Mohali and Session was attended by more than 75 students of 8th, 9th and 10th standards of Govt. High School, Sector 50, Chandigarh.
Celebrating the Digital India Week at UT Chandigarh, the services offer under College Admission Portal, the provisional merit lists of all streams of first year undergraduate have been uploaded today on www.dhechd.org.
Over 29,000 students had applied for admission through this portal and computerized merit lists have been generated through e-campus solution implemented in Government Colleges.
header
