#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=lu_palestinian_president_visit
H.E. Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of state of Palestine Visit at CDAC, Noida
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
HE Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of state of Palestine Visit at CDAC, Noida
Latest Updates
HE Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the State of Palestine accompanied by Mr. Ziad MH Abu-Amr, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Riad NA Walki, Minister of Foreign Affairs and other delegates visited CDAC Noida on 15th May 2017.
The President was welcomed by Mr. P.P Chaudhary, Hon’ble Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, Law and Justice.
Hon’ble Minister of State, in his welcome remarks highlighted the genesis of CDAC and its PARAM series of Super computers.
He also elaborated upon Digital India initiative and it’s impact on the Indian people and economy.
He mentioned that the $12mn aid given to Palestine for setting up of Technopark is the largest project supported by Govt. of India for Palestine till date.
He expressed hope that this would help in socio economic development of Palestine, evolve Palestine as a IT hub in the region and strengthen bilateral ties between the two nations.
HE Mr. Mahmoud Abbas in his special remarks mentioned that he was very pleased to visit C-DAC and thanked everyone for giving a warm welcome.
He mentioned that this trip is a testimony of their interest in fostering ties between India and Palestine.
He also mentioned about laying the foundation stone for India Palestine Techno park with financial help from Govt. of India.
He further mentioned about creation of Council for Excellence and Creativity in Palestine with the aim of developing capacity of Palestinian youths in Technology and other fields.
In his special remarks, he recognized the importance of CDAC in co-operation with other countries due to it’s offering of training and research programmes and exchange of experience.
He was amazed to hear about the details and statistics of the Digital India and eGovernance initiatives provided by Hon’ble Minister of State.
He also expressed hope that such visits will continue for exchange of experiences and will benefit the entire world.
Dr. D. Dutta, Director General, CDAC made a brief but all encompassing presentation on CDAC R&D and training activities.
He also presented the future roadmap of C-DAC especially with relevance to the State of Palestine.
President and other delegates were then taken to Exhibition where they were showcased various projects/products/technologies in the area of Health Informatics, IOT, Embedded Systems, Language Computing, High Performance Computing, Information Security and Capacity Building including e-Learning.
President and other delegates showed keen interest in projects/products/technologies developed by C-DAC including Capacity Building and e-Learning.
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Corporate Profile
Our Vision
Success Stories
Awards & Accolades
Citizen/Client Charter
HR Policies
Quality Policy
Annual Report
Audio-Visual Gallery
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Wednesday, October 17, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
Inclus
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
