#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=job_CAE-DBS
Database Specialist
Name of Post
CAE - II (11 years and above experience)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer - Database Specialist
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune, Delhi
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech.
in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication/Electrical/ Electrical & Electronics
OR
MCA
ME/ M. Tech in Comp./IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication/Electrical/ Electrical & Electronics
Post Graduate Diploma in Advanced Computing will be an added advantage
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience
For - BE/ B. Tech / MCA /ME/M.
Tech /First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline - 11 years and above
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Desired Skill Sets
Skillsets:
Experience in working alongside enterprise and solution architect in designing and implementing enterprise class big data applications with extensive use of AI, ML, and NLP etc.
Hands on knowledge of SQL and NoSQL databases; should have the ability to implement OLTP, OLAP and master data solutions using a mix of databases
Should have hands on knowledge in architecting high availability and high performance database implementations; should be able to configure backup and restoration and secure the databases as part of the enterprise application stack; should be able to vertically and horizontally scale the databases in line with the growth and functionality and data size of the application
Should have in-depth knowledge of database security to, include transparent database encryption, data masking, anonymization, pseudonymization etc.; exposure to privacy preserving techniques in enterprise applications will be a plus
Specific competencies required in building applications using ELK stack, Neo4J, Janus, PostgreSQL, SQL server etc.; should be able to understand and optimize licensing, subscriptions and support for all open source and commercial databases; industry certifications on the specified platforms will be a plus
Good exposure to ETL tools including crawlers, web scrapers etc.
Should be able to work closely with a enterprise dev ops team in testing and release management as applicable to the data stack and the handling of data across dev, test and production environments
Experience in big data projects in the public sector is desirable
Proposed Job Profile
The selected Database Specialist will play a key role in the design of the database layer of the complete application portfolio of a large turnkey project pertaining to the delivery of enterprise class big data applications with extensive use of AI, ML, and NLP etc. for a public sector organization over a period of 2-3 years.
Will report to the Senior Technical Program Manager (Applications) and be responsible for collaborating with the solution architect and enterprise architect in preparing the high and low level design of the solution with specific reference to the database components
Will have full ownership of the database components of the solution over the complete lifecycle comprising of design, implementation, testing, deployment, and operations.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Back to previous page
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
header
