#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=blog_ni_e-RaktKosh
e-RaktKosh (Centralized Blood Bank Management System)
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused unprecedented challenges for the healthcare sector and also affected the blood supply in the country.
Blood centres around the world depend on voluntary blood donations, but there has been a substantial drop in the same because of the implementation of social distancing and anxiety among people over the deadly disease.
There are people who are dependent on blood transfusion as life saving measures, hence, it is essential to maintain a steady supply of safe blood at blood centres in the country.
To help the cause, C-DAC’s e-RaktKosh platform is being used to connect the patients, donors and blood banks and to maintain an adequate stock of blood.
e-RaktKosh is a national platform for information about Blood Banks and Blood availability across India and has been developed by C-DAC under the initiative of Blood Cell, National Health Mission, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of India.
It is the official portal for all blood-related services in India.
e-RaktKosh aims to provide all the information under a single umbrella.
It is a one nation one platform for blood-related Services in India.
Along with providing the information, it helps blood banks in the automation of the blood banks incorporating DGHS guidelines.
It has the following components
A standard-compliant Centralized Blood Bank Management System (BBMS) including a stringent rule-based enforcing mechanism
A location-aware citizen-centric portal and mobile applications
Availability of UMANG Platform
API’s for integration with State instances and other systems wherever required
The key features are:
Citizen-Centric Services containing real-time details from blood banks across India
Provides an end-to-end IT solution for complete workflow managements in blood banks
Available via the web, mobile apps on Google Play, iOS etc.
Integrated with UMANG, e-Hospital, National Health Portal and flagship products of CDAC e-Sushrut and e-Upkaran.
COVID-19 Initiatives in E-RaktKosh Portal
In view of the prevailing outbreak of Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCOV), we had a discussion with Blood Cell NHM, MoHFW, and came up with a solution for the following problem areas:
Online Request Facility
Patients are getting difficulties to contact blood banks for blood arrangement
To overcome commute limitations, an online facility is being provided on e-RaktKosh portal and Mobile App where such patients can register and provide their blood requirements
The patients will get an SMS notification if their request is accepted by the blood bank.
The online request facility in e-RaktKosh will help the needy patients to connect with the blood banks directly and digitally.
e-Pass Request for Blood Donation
Due to lockdown, the voluntary blood donation has decreased drastically which has impacted the stocks in blood banks.
A voluntary donor may not like go through the inconvenience of getting a lockdown e-pass just to donate blood
To facilitate the donors, e-RaktKosh portal and Mobile App is providing an online facility where a donor can provide basic information and request to donate
On receiving this request, the blood bank will coordinate with the donor and either arrange the lockdown e-pass or send a mobile van to collect blood donation
Further, the Hon’ble Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Dr Harsh Vardhan has directed all states to use the e-RaktKosh portal as a single point for maintaining records of donors as well as providing real-time information on the status of current stocks of each blood group.
Become a part of the initiative on eRaktKosh web portal, Android Mobile App, iOS Mobile App
header
