#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mlc_gist_lrc
Language Resource Centre
C-DAC GIST, are pioneers in the field of language processing in India and have been operating successfully over 2 decades.
Our subtitling, translation and localization, services have been time tested and precision tuned by experts in this field.
Now having successfully completed 1.5 lakh hours in subtitling and more than 1 crore words in translation / localization we look forward to expand our services manifold.
We intend to provide a one-stop shop for all your translation/localization needs.
Some of the services we provide are:
Subtitling Services
Fused and Electronic Subtitling
Multilingual translation and data digitization
Credit Titling
We have a team of competent, skilled and dedicated translators in all Languages.
These also include highly qualified professionals equipped with domain specific knowledge and expertise.
We also specialize in localization of software with desired output formats and backed with professional tech support.
Send us a sample (about 50 words for translation/localization) and we will be happy to provide our services with satisfaction guaranteed.
Available Languages
Proven track record with expertise in the following languages :
Indian Languages :
Hindi, Urdu, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Maithili, Marathi, Punjabi, Gujrati, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Bodo, Dogri, Manipuri, Nepali, Konkani, Sanskrit, Santali, Bengali, Assamese and Oriya.
Foreign Languages :
French, German, Italian, Korean, Chinese, Japanese, Thai, Russian, Spanish, Arabic, Sinhalese, Vietnamese.
Clientele :
Some of our esteemed customers include Doordarshan, ETV, B4U, Zee, Prasad DVD, Sony, Glocal Media, Maersk Shipping, Cummins, Kirloskar, Tatas, HEMRL, Words India, CQA etc.
Domains :
Technical, Legal, Medical, Scientific, Engineering, Business, Marketing, Computer and many more.
Multilingual Services from C-DAC :
Multilingual translation, localization, Subtitling & Authoring under one roof
Globalization has broken the national as well as international boundaries with inevitable need for multilingual information.
This generates huge requirement for language translation of various websites, softwares, technical manuals, advertisements, study materials etc. And to cater to this we started our Linguistic Research Centre.
Some of our services are listed below :
Translation
Multilingual development involves adapting the content along with its context.
Our aim is to provide context based translations and not just word-to-word translations.
The following example will highlight it.
The translations are also customized based on specific requirement from the customer.
Localization Services
Localization is far more than just text translation.
It is creating and adapting content for a specific grade, region, culture, or pedagogy.
It involves maintaining and managing context to be appropriately presented to a specific target audience.
To put it simply, one should feel that the content is in native language rather than one translated from English.
We at C-DAC take utmost care of this factor.
New words in native language are introduced considering the requirement of the native speakers who are invariably involved in every step of our translation/localization process.
DVD Subtitling
DVD subtitling in Indian and foreign languages.
Conversion of subtitling files to DVD compatible format.
Subtitles with different background and foreground colors
Subtitles with different fonts and font sizes, edges and edge colors.
Supports PAL and NTSC formats.
Supports Unicode fonts
Contact us:
Tel : 020-25503488/467
E-mail :
Sales related information
E-mail :
Support related information
E-mail :
header
