#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=aboutus_Training_Center
Training
Setting up of two Training Centres at North Eastern States of India
Duration: 18 Months (Start Date: July 2010, Completion Date: June 2012)
Objective and brief description:
C-DAC proposes to provide for the framework with this proposal, which will ensure the contemporary training provided at C-DAC training centres at the North Eastern States capitals by the well-trained faculties.
This proposal aims to set up the HIMS solutions from CDAC, under this frame work.
As the first step, it aims to convert the e-Sushrut package from CDAC, Noda into this model.
This is a full blown ERP package that is well accepted in hospitals like MGIMS, Wardha, PGI, Chandigarh, SMS, Jaipur, and various Govt. hosptals in Delhi.
The current proposal envisages setting up Megh Sushrut services at RIMS Imphal and NEIGRIHMS, Shillong .
C-DAC shall extend its expertise in course design and implementation of training programme at C-DAC, ACTS at various locations on commercial basis.
The objective of imparting the training is to develop citizens of this region through the establishment and operation of progressive and efficient training programmes, thereby improving the quality of the technical knowledge being imparted to the citizens of North Eastern region of India.
This also aims at installing and using the best modern practices and techniques in the conduct of IT training programmes.
The main objective of this project is to set up training Centre with the following vision:
To generate IT knowledge and awareness among citizens.
To generate direct and indirect employment through IT.
To generate World Class IT Programmers.
To offer short-term and long-term courses in the following ICT areas:
To train Government officials in IT.
To upgrade the skills of the IT Faculty in Schools, Colleges and Universities.
E-learning initiatives
Services to Rural areas
Exchange of Experts
For Further Details Please Contact:
Health Informatics Division
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-3063314
email: pksrivastava [at] cdac [dot] in
header
