#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot750
C-DAC to take telemedicine a step ahead
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
The Times of Indian
December 10, 2010
PUNE: "With the National Knowledge Network getting ready, we are looking at further acceleration of solution-driven research.
The ultimate objective will not only be limited to cancer but will also include other diseases like AIDS, " said Hemant Darbari, executive director of Pune-based Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC).
He was speaking at the second meet on Cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG") that kickstarted in the city on Thursday.
"We have already set up a connection between C-DAC's PARAM Yuva supercomputer and caBIG" and plan to take our telemedicine technologies to national level.
To do this, we will also have to move towards petascale and exascale computing.
The ultimate objective will not only be limited to cancer but include other diseases as well, " said Darbari.
George Komatsoulis, deputy director of Centre for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology ( CBIIT), National Cancer Institute ( NCI), USA, emphasised on the need for collaborative research to fight cancer at a global scale.
"Clinical research is a vital tool to shape the system in which we understand and treat this global affliction.
caBIG" seeks to create a worldwide web of cancer researchers with open principles of access, development, source and federation, " said Komatsoulis.
India has its own GARUDA grid and we are looking to set up a grid of grids integrating local and national infrastructure.
Initially we will be connecting C-DAC's Bioinformatics Resources and Applications Facility (BRAF) with caBIG" for research on protein sequencing data.
We are looking to facilitate not only biomedical research, but also scientific research in allied areas as well, he added.
caBIG" seeks to create a worldwide web of cancer researchers with open principles of access, development, source and federation.
The focus is not just on building capability, but also encouraging others to build capabilities.
Another important role is to provide access to cancer data to appropriately authorised individuals irrespective of location so that researchers can accelerate their research or explore new areas of cancer treatment.
Rajan T Joseph, director general of C-DAC highlighted the importance of finding a solution to cancer through technology innovation and biomedical research.
"C-DAC has had a fair amount of experience in cancer care and treatment through its CancerNet and OncoNet projects which has been implemented across Kerala.
Our telemedicine network has enabled thousands of cancer patients in remote areas to avail of the specialist medical care available at the regional cancer centre, Thiruvananthapuram.
It is a strong motivation for us, " Joseph said.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
