#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_dss_prakriti_vichaya
Prakriti Vichaya
Prakriti (constitution) is a unique concept of Ayurveda that seeks to explain the element of individuality by expressing the unique trait of an individual that is defined by the specific and permanent composition of their Dosha (primary elements) at conception.
Prakriti plays an important role in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases.
Prakriti on the physical level is 'Dosha Prakriti' and on the psychological level is 'Maanas Prakriti'.
Prakriti assessment is part of a ten-point system of evaluation of an individual and helps the physician to suggest a proper diet and lifestyle to maintain an optimum state of health.
It is also important for diagnosis and selection of drugs for specific treatment.
'Dhaatusaarataa' assessment defines the status of the Dhaatu (basic tissues).
It is interpreted as excellent (Saara) and deprived (Asaara).
Based on the assessment, a physician can isolate the probable diseases and can suggest the treatment.
The Prakriti Vichaya module of AyuSoft covers the above three applications as:
Dosha Prakriti
Dhaatusaarataa
Questionnaire:
Extensive questionnaire specific to age group and gender.
It covers history, anatomical, physiological, psychological assessment with practical options to each question
Validation of Tool:
Validated tool through multi-centric national level trials
Result:
Subgroups specific quantitative analysis for better understanding of constitution parameters
Highlights:
Assesses the physical and psychological constitution based on which the diet and lifestyle advice is suggested.
It also facilitates the examination of Dhaatusaarataa
Modifiable weightage for each possible option of every question
Diet and lifestyle advice based on constitution
Segregated questionnaire based on the age demographics for old, adult, child & infant
Analytical charts, graphs for enhanced quantitative understanding
Detailed help for each question
Prakriti and Saarataa data can be used for further research and correlations
Contact Us
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Applied AI Group, 4th Floor,
C-DAC Innovation Park,
Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008.
Phone No. : (020) 25503314 / 15
Email: info.aai@cdac.in
header
Dosha Prakriti
Dhaatusaarataa
