#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_October_Blr_DSBDA_2015
DSBDA October 2015
Data Science & Big Data Analytics (DSBDA’15) - Training Program
Date: October 14-16, 2015
Venue: C-DAC, Bangalore
Objective of DSBDA'15:
The future belongs to Data Science for Big Data Analytics that has the potential to transform business, science, research, healthcare and government activities.
This “data-driven” approach is adopted in all disciplines to achieve greater insights and to predict future trends.
DSBDA'15 will walk the participants through some of the popular data science tools and techniques to handle big data, and some of the popular machine learning (ML) libraries.
Participants will learn steps involved in data cleaning and processing, largescale data analysis, use of different ML techniques for extracting meaningful information, perform real-time data visualization.
The Program includes hands-on training.
Course outline:
Data Science & Big Data : Introduction and Context
Introduction to Classification, Clustering and Recommender systems
Data mining techniques
R-statistical tool for data processing
Hadoop ecosystem
Machine learning using Apache Mahout
RHadoop for data mining
Stream Analytics using Apache Spark
Pre-requisites:
Basic Knowledge of Programming in Java/Python
Targeted Audience:
Research Students, Prospective Data scientists, Developers and Software Architects
Registration Fees:
Registration Fees (in Rupees)
Industry / Corporate
Rs. 9000/-
Govt / Academic Institutes
Rs. 7000/-
Post Graduate / PhD Students (Full-time)
Rs. 5000/-
Mode of payment:
Registration fee should be sent through DD in favor of ‘C-DAC, Bengaluru’, payable at Bengaluru along with the completely filled online registration form available at
Details of Bank Account for transfer of Funds through NEFT
Bank details for NEFT
Account Name
C-DAC, BANGALORE
Name of the Bank
STATE BANK OF MYSORE
Branch / Address of Bank
NGEF Branch
Account No:
Account type:
SAVING
IFSC of Bank:
SBMY0040223
MICR code of Bank:
DD should reach on or before October 10, 2015 to the following address:
Co-ordinator, DSBDA'15 Training Program
C-DAC Knowledge Park, No.1, Old Madras Road,
Byappanahalli, Bengaluru - 560038, India
Participants are requested to make their own arrangements for transportation and accommodation.
Deadline for Online Registration: October 08, 2015
Seating is limited, hence early registration is strongly encouraged.
For further information, contact:
Co-ordinator:
Ms. Janaki Ch
Contact details:
Harinath G: +91-9743579795, +91-8066116436
Email: ds15@cdac.in
Click for Brochure
Click for Registration
header
