#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_his_Health_Care
Health Care
The objective of the project is to create Semantic Network - enabled eHealth Care Knowledge Resources across all the eight North-East States for promoting public health awareness and education and to empower public with health care knowledge.
Web enabled Concept Maps based Health Care Knowledge System has been developed/ updated as per North-East States Medical College & Hospitals and Directorate of Health Services needs and advices.
The Semantic Network - enabled health care knowledge system provides organized healthcare knowledge towards quick understanding of disease symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, diets and prevention.
Thousands of pages of medical, healthcare information have been transformed into about 350 pages of semantic networks and concept maps showing important health objects and its relationships.
This eHealth solution aims for faster knowledge dissemination and understanding.
People won't get tired of reading lines of text as found in the traditional web content or e-books with easier navigation among the various complex concept maps.
This cognitive engineering system provides faster Health knowledge acquisition & dissemination and effective at-a-glance quick understanding of symptoms, prevention, treatment, knowledge related to Key-points to Stay-Healthy, Causes-Symptoms-Healing, Human Body's Organ Systems, Vitamins, Minerals, Diseases related to Cancer, Aging, Heart, Diabetes, Rheumatoid, Allergy, Asthma, Pneumonia, Emphysema, Back Pain, Broken Bones, Burns, Children, Eye Problem, Family Planning, Fever, Malnutrition, Stomach, Liver, Thyroid, Worm, Mental, Poisoning, Problem by Birth, Serious Sicknesses, Skin, Sexual Contact, Teeth-Gums, Women, Mother, Baby Care, Healthy Foods etc.
Health Care Knowledge System has already been deployed in more than 35 places all across the Eight North - East states through setting up Health Care Knowledge Kiosks, Websites uploading , Software Installations, Providing Operational Training to Health Workers, and Conducting Workshops at all NE States:
Arunachal Pradesh: (i) Arunachal State Hospital, Naharlagun (ii) Ramakrishna Mission Hospital, Itanagar (iii) Arunachal Medical Council, (iv) Directorate of Health Services, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh.
Assam: (i) Silchar Medical College& Hospital, Silchar, Cachar District (ii) Guwahati Medical College & Hospital (iii) Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh (iv) Katlichara Rural Health Centre (v) Indian Red Cross Society (vi) S N Dev Civil Hospital (vii) Cachar District Directorate of Health Services (vii) Regional Resource Centre for North Eastern States (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Govt. of India), Guwahati (viii) Directorate of Health & Family welfare, Guwahati.
Manipur:  (i) Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, (RIMS), Lamphelpat, Imphal, (ii) Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences & Hospital, Porompat, (iii) Directorate of Health Services, Health & Family Welfare, Govt of Manipur.
Meghalaya: (i) North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences, (NEIGRIHMS), Mawdiangdiang, (ii) Civil Hospital, Shillong, (iii) Ganesh Das Hospital, Shillong, (iv) Directorate of Health Services, Govt of Meghalaya, (v) National Rural Health Mission, Govt. of Meghalaya.
Mizoram: (i) Civil Hospital, Aizawl, (ii) Regional Institute of Paramedical and Nursing, RIPANS, Zemabawk, (iii) National Rural Health Mission, Government of Mizoram, (iv) Health & Family Welfare Department, Government of Mizoram.
Nagaland: (i) Naga Hospital, Kohima, (ii) National Rural Health Mission, Govt of Nagaland, Kohima, (iii) The Christian Institute of Health Sciences & Research (CIHSR), Dimapur, (iv) Dimapur District Hospital, (v) Health & Family Welfare Department, Govt of Nagaland.
Sikkim: (i) Central Referral Hospital, Tadong, (ii) Sikkim Manipal Institute of Medical Sciences (SMIMS), Gangtok, (iii) Directorate of Health Services, Govt of Sikkim.
Tripura: (i) Agartala Govt Medical College, (ii) G B Pant Hospital, Agartala, (iii) Tripura Medical College, Hapania, (iv) Dr B R Ambedkar HospitalI G M Hospital, (v) Indian Red Cross Society, (vi) State AIDS Control Society, (vii) National Rural Health Mission, (NRHM), Department of Health & Family Welfare, Govt of Tripura, (viii) Community Health Centre (CHC), Mohanpur.
Click to download Brochure
header
