#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=st_egov_SSDG
State e-Governance Service Delivery Gateway (SSDG)
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Software Technologies including FOSS
e-Governance and m-Governance
The National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) of the Govt. of India aims to make all Government services accessible to the common man in his locality, through common service delivery outlets and ensure efficiency, transparency & reliability of such services at affordable costs to realize the basic needs of the common man.
One of the goals of the Government to meet this vision is the need to cooperate, collaborate and integrate information across different departments in the Centre, States and Local Government.
Government systems characterized by islands of legacy systems using heterogeneous platforms and technologies and spread across diverse geographical locations, in varying state of automation, make this task very challenging .The State e-Governance Service Delivery Gateway (SSDG), a core component in e-Governance infrastructure under the NeGP, can simplify this task by acting as a standards-based messaging switch and providing seamless interoperability and exchange of data across different departments.
Objectives:
Act as a catalyst in enabling the building of Standards based e-Governance applications with Gateway as the middleware to ensure interoperability.
Enable integration across Centre, State or Local Governments there by enabling Integrated Service Delivery and a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) leading to joined up government .
Help protect the legacy investments in software and hardware by easily integrating them with other technology platforms and software implementations.
De-link the back-end departments/Service Providers (SP) from the front-end Service Access Providers thereby.
Ensuring separation of concerns of service access from the service implementation i.e. separates the Portal, CSC, Kiosks etc. from the government services which reside in the backend departments.
Encouraging competition at the front-end by allowing independent service access providers to provide services with varying levels of complexity, cost and service quality levels.
Shared services can be added on to the core services as and when required, as special common services of the Gateway without affecting the core functionality of the Gateway, thereby providing flexibility and modularity.
Encourage back-end services to be plugged into the infrastructure as and when they are ready.
Reduce the cost of e-Governance Projects by rationalizing, distributing and optimizing the services framework.
Use PKI infrastructure for secure transactions.
Provision exists for encryption of department payload to ensure confidentiality of department data.
The gateway provides digital signature and certificates to all stakeholders interacting with the gateway for identification, authentication and authorization.
Transaction and audit logs help track government data.
Enable transaction logging and time stamping for tracking of transactions and centralized control.
Help the Departments backend workflow evolve gradually as the Gateway acts as a middleware de-linking the backend from the front end.
This means that even the Departments which do not have the complete automation or work flow at the back can still deliver e-Service to the citizens in a limited manner through the Gateway.
To cite as an example, a server may be put up at the department for message exchange with Gateway in absence of readily available infrastructure at the department.
Workshop/Training:
SSDG workshop for implementing agency (IA) conducted on 16th December 2010.
SSDG workshop for implementing agency (IA) conducted on 9th March 2011.
SSDG workshop for e-district conducted on 22nd and 23rd May 2014.
SSDG training for Rajasthan state conducted on 26th and 27th June 2014.
Group: SENG
Contact Details of the Project In charge/Head:
Dr. Zia Saquib (saquib [at] cdac [dot] in)
Team Members:
Dr. Padmaja Joshi (padmaja [at] cdac [dot] in)
Mr. Muenuddeen Shekh (shekhm [at] cdac [dot] in)
Mr. Saurabh Kushwaha (saurabh [at] cdac [dot] in)
Mr. BCL Narasaiah (narasaiah [at] cdac [dot] in)
Mr. Ranjit P L (ranjitpl [at] cdac [dot] in)
Past Members:
Mr. Krishna Pandey
Mr. Anwar
Contact Address :
Gulmohar Cross Road No.9 , Juhu
Mumbai 400 049
Tel :26201606
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Free/Open Source Software
Spatial Sciences and Disaster Management
ICT Solutions for Social Development
E-Learning
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, September 27, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
Growth Model
Focus Areas
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
