#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mc_hc_heritage_computing
C-DAC Heritage Computing
C-DAC is involved in standardisation and representation of Heritage scripts such as Grantha, Vedic, Samavedic, Modi, etc. in modern standards such as UNICODE.
JATAN: Virtual Museum Builder
JATAN: Virtual Museum Builder has been standardized by the Ministry of Culture for all the museums under the ministry.
It has been deployed in various national and state museums.
Standard for Preservation Information Documentation (eGOV-PID) of Electronic Records
This standard proposes to capture most of the preservation information (metadata) automatically after the final e-record is created by the e-government system.
Such preservation information documentation is necessary only for those e-records that need to be retained for long durations (e.g. 10 years, 25 years, 50 years and beyond) and the e-records that need to be preserved permanently as per the requirements specified in the ISO 14721 Open Archival Information Systems (OAIS) Reference Model.
Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation
Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation at C-DAC has developed digital preservation guidelines and standard for e-governance to ensure that the electronic records are produced in preservable manner.
The digital preservation standard has been notified and adopted for all e-governance applications by the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Government of India.
Digital Preservation System for disposed cases
Digital Preservation System for disposed cases for courts developed under National Digital Preservation Programme
Digital Library of India
C-DAC, has established regional mega scanning centre for digitization of rare and copyright free books of various regions of India including the North-Eastern region.
The aim is to create a portal of heritage books and manuscripts for the Digital Library of India, which will foster creativity and free access to all human knowledge.
Indian Embroidery
Indian Heritage & Language Computing
Digitalaya: Electronic Records Management and Archival System
Interactive Multimedia
Library of Designs Ver.1.0 Phulkari
Virtual Museums
e-RUPANTAR
header
