#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mc_hc_jatan_product_n
JATAN: Virtual Museum Builder
Brief Description
A virtual museum helps in digital preservation and providing online access to heritage information resources for education, research and tourism.
It can make the museum antiquities accessible online for the benefit of tourists, teachers, students and researchers.
Museum antiquities can provide information about history of the civilization, lifestyle, culture, traditions, ancient knowledge of science and technology and overall human evolution.
A virtual museums involves following major activities
Metadata description and linking of digital contents
Providing online access to heritage information resources
Access through mobile devices and kiosks
National Repository and Portal for Museums of India is an example of virtual museum that provides online access to ten national museums placed different geographical locations.
Such virtual museums are now directly accessible in the classrooms.
Virtual museums can be linked with school education for providing various learning resources to benefit the students.
JATAN (जतन): Virtual Museum Builder is presently deployed at 10 national museums and around 15 state museums.
Main uses and domain
It is very effective for digitization of documents and books.
This software has to be used along with DIGITALAYA (डिजिटालय).
Features and Technical Specifications
Collaborative framework for historians to collectively enrich the information
Support for integration of documentation of antiquities in multimedia formats
Integration of 360 degree panorama
Dedicated metadata forms for anthropology, antiquity, textile, science museums
Search & retrieval
QR Code generation
Data package export facility for DARSHAK (दर्शक) Mobile App
Platform required (if any)
N.A
Read more
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information Senior Director & HoD,
Human-Centred Design & Computing Group, C-DAC, Pune.
Email: digitalpreservation [at] cdac [dot] in
Click to close
header
