#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_blockchain
Workshop on Blockchain Technology
Objective
Blockchain technology is an emerging technology suitable for decentralized and transactional sharing of data across a large network of untrusted participants.
By using this technology one can maintain continuously-growing list of records called blocks and link them in a distributed manner (blockchain), potentially in such a way that these are secured against tampering.
Blockchain is maintained as distributed database of records of transactions (distributed ledger) that are shared among participants.
This technology uses cryptographic algorithms to validate the logged transactions and ensures that no record is duplicated and also permanent records are updated on each node of the network.
This technology allows new type of distributed software architecture where components can establish trust by finding concurrence on their shared states.
Blockchain have good potential to transform the logging and management of transactions in different application areas.
This technology is successfully used in Bitcoin virtual currency and it also has good potential in non-financial sectors such as Governance, healthcare, cyber security, automobiles, media, travel, hospitality, energy, smart cities etc.
Considering the growing importance of Blockchain Technology and its potential in different sectors, this one day workshop is planned and sessions would be delivered by experts from ISI Kolkata, IBM, Infosys, ICIC Bank, IDRBT and C-DAC.
Register Now
Click here to download the Brochure
(File Type: PDF, File Size: 422 KB, Date: 06/10/2016)
Date, Timing & Venue
Date: 28th Dec 2016
Timing - 9:00 a.m to 5:30 p.m
Venue: C-DAC, Plot No – 6 & 7, Hardware Park, Srisailam Highway, Pahadi Shareef (via), Kesavagiri (post), Hyderabad, Telangana, India, Pin Code - 501510
Registration Fee
Rs. 1000/- (one thousand rupees only).
Who should attend
Researchers, Academicians, Banking and other Industry participants working in e-Security
Workshop Focus
Introduction to Blockchain technology
Decentralized applications & Blockchain
Application scenarios in Banking & FinTech and Governance
Hyperledger Blockchain
Opportunities, Societal impact and Challenges
For any queries, please contact us at 9248920203 or email us at esuraksha@cdac.in
header
expand/collapse
