#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot1051
Cyber security, digital divide need attention
Sakal Times
November 21, 2016
The Minister of State for Law and Justice and Electronics and IT, PP Chaudhary, said that the digital divide in the country and cyber security are the most important things that we need to address.
He was speaking during the inauguration of a new facility at Advanced Computing Training School (ACTS) of C-DAC at its Innovation Park campus on Saturday.
“With the advent of technology to the digital device, there has been a digital divide.
Those who can’t purchase are deprived.
This divide was lessened with the introduction of Internet and cell phone.
Recently, the Prime Minister launched ‘mygov, ’ which takes the government initiatives to the people aiming to bridge the gap.
Thus, in democracy, the participation of people at the micro level is taken to another stage.
The second problem today that we face is cyber security.
Every citizen is vulnerable today.
We should aim at taking steps that are proactive.
Such issues can be worked on in organisations like C-DAC, ” said Chaudhary.
He also released two new products, namely the Mobile IP App, a mobile-based application to provide IPR services and e-Reception, a tablet-based mobile reception desk.
The Mobile IP app developed jointly by the IPR Division of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and C-DAC, is part of the ‘Patent Analysis Management System’, being implemented by C-DAC under the aegis of the MeitY with the objective of ensuring that the intellectual wealth of our nation is adequately protected.
Also present on the occasion were Rajat Moona, Director General, C-DAC, Hemant Darbari, Executive Director, C-DAC, Pune, and other senior members of C-DAC and ACTS.
The new facility incorporates both classrooms and state-of-the-art IT laboratories to cater to different training programmes conducted by C-DAC ACTS.
Incidentally, in keeping with the times, C-DAC ACTS has recently introduced two new courses namely PG Diploma in High Performance Computing and PG Diploma in Internet of Things.
header
