#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=job_CAE-SDD
Software Design & Development
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Jobs
Position
Adjunct Engineer -Software Design & Development
Group
E-Governance
No. of Positions (indicative only)
Essential Qualification (Full Time Courses only)
1st Class B.E/B. Tech. in Computer Science/IT/Computer Applications/Electronics /MCA
OR
Masters in Technology (M.
Tech)/Masters in Engineering (M.E) in Computer Science/IT/Computer Applications/Electronics
Ph. D in Computer Science/IT/Computer Applications/Electronics
Minimum Post Qualification Experience
For- B.E/B. Tech./ME/M. Tech./MCA/Ph.
D - 8 years and above experience
Maximum Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Job Profile
Have in depth knowledge and experience of Software Design and Development in J2EE, (MVC Architecture using spring (3.1 & above) /Struts (2.0) and Hibernate (4.2 & above) frameworks.) Database Oracle/ PostGress/MSSQL and WebSpehere /JBOSS/Tomcat.
Evaluates complex situations using multiple sources of information filters, validates and interprets dynamic material
Manages and appropriately escalates: delivery impediments, risks, issues, and changes associated to the project development initiatives
Ability to lead and motivate cross-functional teams and interact with all levels
Analysis, planning, developing requirements documents, building functional models, developing procedures, developing functional architectures, and other related management and technical duties
Assigns and monitor work of technical personnel, ensuring that project steps are in alignment with business objectives, on-time and within budget
Creates a method of change management including ownership of documentation, communication plans, process training, etc.
Defines project scope, deliverables, roles and responsibilities in collaboration with stakeholders and business partners
Designs and implements processes to monitor and control resources, budget, risks and value to Business Objectives
Establishes, plans, and executes major milestone reviews to complete the project and project life cycle.
Ensure project and reviewed, including the technical leadership of requirements management, design, implementation, system integration, verification, test, quality assurance, delivery, operations, and sustainment of the technical solution
Manage scope throughout the project duration.
Maintains accurate program estimates, timelines, project plans, status reports
Manages and tracks team velocity, financials, and other KPIs in relation to the plan and published progress reports
Possesses high level understanding in the areas of web application programming, content management systems, API, database and system design
Provide process improvement recommendations based on best practices and industry standards
Resolves conflicts by demonstrating leadership and appropriate decision-making competencies
Responsible for complex program management tasks and development of standards and processes for scheduling, administration, and accounting.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills and the ability to interact professionally with a diverse group; developers, Stakeholders, and subject matter experts.
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Back to previous page
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Sector-62,
Noida - 20130
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, August 03, 2020
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
