#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_gp-cp-hyb-cmp-opcl-mp-prg
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Cluster
Mode-5 HPC Cluster
HPC-MPI Cluster
GPU Cluster -NVIDIA
GPU Cluster - AMD APP
Cluster - Intel Coprocessors
Cluster - Power & Perf.
contents
overview
Module 1:GPU Cluster:OpenMP - OpenCL - Matrix Computations
Module 2:GPU Cluster:Pthreads - OpenCL Dense Matrix Computations
Module 3:MPI-OpenCL-Dense Matrix Compuations - Application Kernels
Module 4:GPU Cluster Health Monitoring - Low level Benchmarks
High Performance computing GPU Cluster (HPC GPU Cluster) is based on integration of different programming paradigms on  host-CPU  and  device-GPU  is available for laboratory sessions.
A prototype HPC GPU Cluster supports various heterogeneous programming features and it can be made "adaptive" to the application it is running, assigning the most effective resources in real-time as per application demands, without requiring modifications to the application that is written using different progrmaming is used.
The goal of this heterogeneous CPU-GPU mixed programming environment is to provide total workflow optimization, which takes cares-off applications that do not parallelize well on scalar processors, can be optimized with the appropriate computation model.
Example 1.1
Write MPI - OpenCL program to perform prefix sum of multiple arrays on multiple GPUs of HPC Cluster.
Example 1.2
Write MPI - OpenCL program to compute dot product of two vectors using block-striped partitioning with uniform data distribution.
( Assignment)
Example 1.3
Write MPI - OpenCL program to compute the Matrix and Vector Multiplication using block-striped row-wise partitioning with uniform data distribution.
( Assignment)
Example 1.4
Demonstrate performance of SHOC (MPI+OpenCL) open source Software on hetrogenous computing system.
(Assignment)
The HPC GPU Cluster aim is to develop system software and integrate components OpenCL GPU and demonstrare some of the programs in Mode-2.
Different programming paradigms on host CPU i.e. MPI, OpenMP, Pthreads and OpenCL on GPUs are integrated and several example programs for Dense Matrix Computations, Solution of Partial Differential equations are considered.
Description of Programs
Example 1.1:
Write a MPI - OpenCL program in which each MPI process compute the pefix sum of each array on each GPU for given number of arrays asscociate with number of processes.
(Download source code :   WinRAR ZIP archive (.zip)  )
Objective
Write a MPI - OpenCL program, to compute the pefix sum of each array for given number of arrays in which each MPI process is binding to each GPU.
Given total number of arrays binding to the number of proceses spawned in the MPI program, each MPI process rank reads the input array and OpenC kernel performs prefix sum of an array on each GPU asociated with MPI process rank.
Input
The input to the problem is given as arguments in the command line.
Output
Each Process 0 prints the final prefix sum of an array.
Example 1.2:
Objective
Write a MPI - OpenCL program, to compute the vector-vector multiplication on p processes of a message passing cluster using block-striped partitioning with uniform data distribution where each processes invokes Vector Vector Multiplication OpenCL kernel to compute the product.
Assume that the vectors are of size n and p is number of processes used and n is divisible p.
The partitioning is called block-striped if each process is assigned contiguous elements.
The process P0 gets the first n/p elements, P1 gets the next n/p elements and so on.
The distribution of 16 elements of vector A on 4 processes is shown in the following figure 1.
Figure 1 A Typical block-striped partitioning of a vector of size 16 on 4 processes
Initially process with rank 0 distributes the input vectors using  MPI_Scatter  on p processes.
Each process will call a OpenCL kernel which performs local dot product of the vectors and stores the partial dot product.
Now the process with rank 0 performs global reduction using  MPI_Reduce  to get the final dot product of two vectors
Implementation of Vector Vector Multiplication :
Step 1 :  Four vectors are required for computation.
Two vectors for vector A and Vector B and the other two for storing part of these two vectors at the each node.
Step2 :  Root Processor Initializes the two vectors i.e Vector A and Vector B. The two vectors are constructed by assigning to each element one more than its index value .
Step 3 :  Vector Size is broadcasted to all nodes from the root processor.
Step 4 :  Memory is assigned for MyVectorA and MyVectorB on all nodes.
Step 5 :  Process with rank 0 distributes the input vectors using MPI_Scatter on to p processes
Step 6 :  Similar arrays are allocated on the device.
The values of the arrays in the host machine are copied on to the arrays allocated on the device.
Step 7 :  Each node computes the partial product value by calling VectorVectorDotProduct OpenCL kernel.
Step 8 :  Process with rank 0 performs global reduction using MPI_Reduce to get the final dot product of two vectors.
Step 9 :  Process with rank 0 prints the product value.
Input
It should be given in the following format ; Suppose that the size of the vector is n and the number of nodes is m, then the program must be run as,
mpirun -n m ./program_name n
Processor 0 generates the two vectors i.e Vector A and Vector B.
Output
Process 0 prints the final product value of two vectors.
The product of the given two vectors is 204.0.
The correctness of the output can be verified using the below formula The sum of the squares of the first n numbers is (n (n+1)(2n+1))/6.
Example 1.3:
Write MPI - OpenCL program to compute the Matrix and Vector Multiplication using block-striped row-wise partitioning with uniform data distribution
Objective
Write a MPI - OpenCL program, for computing the matrix -vector multiplication on p processors of a message passing cluster using block striped partitioning of a matrix.
In the striped partitioning of a matrix, the matrix is divided into groups of contiguous complete rows or columns, and each processor is assigned one such group.
The partitioning is called block-striped if each processor is assigned contiguous rows or columns.
Striped partitioning can be block or cyclic.
In a row-wise block striping of an nxn matrix on p processors (labeled  P0 , P1, P2, ..., P p-1  ) , processor Pi contains rows with indices (n/p) i, (n/p) i+1, (n/p) i+2, (n/p) i+3, ........, (n/p)(i+1)-1.
A typical column-wise or row-wise partitioning of 16 x 16 matrix on 4 processors is shown in the following Figure 2.
Figure 2 Uniform block-striped partitioning of 16 x 16 matrix on 4 processors.
The matrix A of size n x n is striped row-wise among p processes so that each process stores n/p rows of the matrix.
We assume that the vector x of size n x 1 is available on each process .
Now, process Pi computes the dot product of the corresponding rows of the matrix A [*] with the vector B [ * ] by calling the OpenCL kernel Matrix Vector Multiplication and accumulate the partial result in the vector My Result vector [ * ]. Finally, process P0 collects the dot product of different rows of the matrix with the vector from all the processes.
Implementation of Matrix Vector Multiplication :
Step 1 :  Five arrays are required for computation.
One each, for storing Matrix, vector, result vector, some part of the Matrix and the some part of the result vector.
Step 2 :  Root processor initializes the Matrix, vector and the resultant vector.
The matrix and the vector are constructed by assigning one to each element and the result vector is initialized to zero.
Step 3:  Vector B is broadcasted to all the processors from the root node.
Step 4 :  Scatter size is computed.
Step 5 : Memory is allocated for MyMatrixA and the MyResultVector by all the nodes.
Step 6 : Process with rank 0 distributes the Matrix using MPI_Scatter on to p processes.
Step 7 :  Similar vectors are allocated on the device.
The values of the vectors in the host machine are copied to the vectors on the device machine.
Step 8 :  Each node computes the Matrix vector multiplication by calling the OpenCL kernel MatrixVectorMultiplication and copies back the result to MyResultVector on the host.
Step 9 : Processor 0 gathers from all the nodes and form the final result vector.
Step10 : Process with rank 0 prints the resultant vector.
Input
It should be given in the following format .
Suppose the dimension of the matrix is mxn, size of the vector is n and the number of processors is  p.
mpirun -n p ./Matrix_Vector_Multiply m n n
Process with rank 0 generates the Matrix and the vector.
Output
Process 0 prints the final vector.
Example 1.4:
Objective
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
