#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_CAE-SA-SAD
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer-Solution Architect
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Name of the Post
CAE (12 years and above)
Specialization/ Domain
C-DAC Adjunct Engineer – Solution Architect (Detailed Solution Architecture and Design)
No. of Requirements
Job Location
Pune / Delhi
Desired Educational Qualification and specialization
B. E. / B. Tech./ME/ M. Tech in Comp/IT/ Electronics/ Electronics & Telecommunication/communication / Electrical & Electronics / Electrical
OR
MCA
OR
First Class PG Degree in Science or domain, in relevant discipline
Post Qualification relevant Experience.
For - BE / B. Tech /ME/ M. Tech/ MCA / Post Graduate Degree in Science or in relevant discipline- 12 Years and above relevant work experience
Max Age
57 years at the time of the submission of application
Skill Set
Hands-on experience in Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring Security, Micro services
Hands-on experience of working on Spring boot based Microservices
Working knowledge of microservices DevOps tools (Git, Jenkins, JUnit, deployment, monitoring, tracing)
Sound understanding of core Java, SOAP Services, REST Services, Spring & Maven, with Linux platform
Expertise Should have a working knowledge on web servers (e.g. Apache HTTP) and application servers (e.g. Tomcat, Jboss)
Should have working knowledge of any relational database.
Preferred will be Oracle
Experience with configuration management frameworks such as Ansible, Chef, and Tecrraform Development background ability to read and modify the code and fix build issues
Experience with task automation using off-the-shelf tools and/or customized scripts
Experience in performing Linux and Windows systems administration, including troubleshooting, security/performance monitoring, and tuning
Experience developing and supporting software applications within a multi-platform continuous integration, deployment, and delivery environment
Designing innovative technical solutions using DevOps practices
Experience working on open source platforms (Apache, Tomcat, Nginx, Node.js, etc) Hosted and configured cloud-based service experience using AWS
Experience with performing infrastructure automation and development using configuration management and containerization technologies like Chef, Ansible, Terraform and Docker for multi-tier web applications
Knowledge of virtualization environments (e.g. VMWare, OpenStack, KVM)
Knowledge of distributed version control systems (e.g. Git/Stash)
Good understanding of RESTful web services
Good to have Passion for writing great, simple, clean, efficient code
Should be a very fast learner and have excellent problem-solving capabilities
Should have excellent written and verbal communication skills
Experience working in large-scale distributed systems is a plus
Should be able to independently design and build components for the automation platform
Should assist in maintenance of the tools and troubleshooting the issues
Proposed Job Profile
Building and integrating information systems to meet the company’s needs.
Assessing the systems architecture currently in place and working with technical staff to recommend solutions to improve it.
Resolving technical problems as they arise.
Providing supervision and guidance to development teams.
Continually researching current and emerging technologies and proposing changes where needed.
Informing various stakeholders about any problems with the current technical solutions being implemented.
Assessing the business impact that certain technical choices have.
Providing updates to stakeholders on product development processes, costs, and budgets.
Analyze current technologies used within the company and determine ways to improve
Document and monitor requirements needed to institute proposed updates
Work closely with Information Technology professionals within the company to ensure requirements availablity for projects and working properly
Propose and establish framework for necessary contributions from various departments
Account for possible project challenges on constraints including, risks, time, resources and scope
Work closely with project management teams to successfully monitor progress of initiatives
Provide detailed specifications for proposed solutions
Define clear goals for all aspects of a project and manage their proper execution
Analyzing the technology environment
Analyzing enterprise specifics
Analyzing and documenting requirements
Setting the collaboration framework
Creating a solution prototype
Participating in technology selection
Controlling solution development
Supporting project management
Consolidated Pay Per Month
As per the industry standards based on qualification, experience, expertise, role etc.
Apply Now
Human Resource Department
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Innovation Park, Panchavati, Pashan,
Pune - 411 008
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, July 05, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
