#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_his_noida_130318_sushrut
E-SUSHRUT
Brief Description
e-Sushrut C-DAC’s Hospital Management Information System is a major step towards adapting technology to improve healthcare system.
HMIS incorporates an integrated computerized clinical information system for improved hospital administration and patient healthcare.
It also provides an accurate, electronically stored medical record of the patient.
A data warehouse of such records can be utilized for statistical requirements and for research.
The real time HMIS streamlines the treatment flow of patients and simultaneously empowering workforce to perform their peak ability, in an optimized and efficient manner.
It is modeled on the unique combination of a patient centric and medical staff centric paradigm, this providing benefits to both the recipients and the providers of healthcare.
It ensures dramatic improvement in performance along with reducing the costs.
HMIS can be customized for a variety of hospitals such as medium size clinics, large sized hospital which could be Government Hospitals, Super Specialty Hospitals or Private Hospitals.
Main uses and domain
Domain:  Health Informatics
Main Users: Medium size clinics, large hospitals which could be Government Hospitals, Super Specialty Hospitals or Private Hospitals.
Features and Technical Specifications
Salient Features
Cloud Enabled
Available in Open Source Technology and is portable across a variety of platforms
Configurable for multiple hospitals
Connects people, process and data in real time across all the hospitals
Customized clinical data according to department and laboratory
Customizable Alert Management
Unique Health ID for patients
Multi hospital feature to provide Cross consultation for patients among different health professionals within the State.
Generation of comprehensive EMR and Patient Profile
Online Registration / Appointment, Online lab report view/download.
Compliance to EHR Standards like SNOMED-CT, ICD-10, LOINC etc
Interface with Medical Equipments, Barcode, Biometrics, Digital Tablets etc
Integration with Aadhar card and SMS Gateway
Integration with “MeraAspataal”, Online Registration System (ORS)
Integration with PHRMS System “MyHealthRecords”
Supports Payment Gateway to enable Digital Payments
Citizen Centric Mobile Application
The system architecture is based on three-tier architecture with the following details of each layer:
Tier-I: Database Server
Tier-II: : Middle Tier Servers based on Application Server that facilitates seamless integration of business logic in multiple layering architecture including presentation layer, business layer and data layer using J2EE technologies like Java Servlets, Web Services etc.
Tier-III: Client interface so designed shall be user-friendly GUI based system developed using Java Applets and Java Beans.
The system has capabilities accessing data through Intranet or Internet through a standard Browser Application (Mozilla Firefox) to make it a truly web enabled solution.
The solution architecture is designed to operate between two sites – viz. - Data centre at C-DAC and Intranet of systems set up in the beneficiary hospitals.
Platform required (if any)
Architecture : J2EE based N-Tier
Front End : JDK, JSP
Framework : Struts 1.2
Deployment : Linux
App Server : JBoss
Database : PostgreSQL Enterprise DB
Read more
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Rajiv Yadav
Associate Director
Phone No.:0120-3063325
Fax: 0120-2063317
Mobile: 9811775334
Email: rajivyadav [at] cdac [dot] in
Click to close
header
