#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=dw_online
Success Stories / GIST Bengali on DW Online
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
C-DAC technology for DW-Online (Deutsche Welle Online)
CASE STUDY
Deutsche Welle the German broadcasting service has online services in Bengali and Hindi, a first among the leading international broadcasting organizations.
An Urdu service is also slated to begin soon.
Deutsche Welle (DW), a German international broadcasting service offers a global package of programmes for radio, television and the Internet in different languages including German, English and Spanish.
DW's highly regarded training centre: DWFZ, provides comprehensive training to broadcasters from the developing world as well as eastern and south-eastern Europe.
It offers courses in journalism, technology and administration, in Cologne (radio) and in Berlin (television).
Recently, the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) assisted DW-WORLD.DE - the multilingual and multimedia-based internet address of Deutsche Welle to expand its Bengali, Hindi and Urdu Service.
C-DAC's GIST facilitated the expansion of DW-WORLD.DE by developing special Open-type fonts suitable for the complex nature of the DW-Online framework.
The settings of the Content Management Service (CMS) based platform, to streamline the framework of the multilingual online service, established a requirement for characters of all the scripts to be in the Unicode standard.
Latin based scripts like German, English, Turkish or Bahasa Indonesia could be easily integrated into the system.
Scripts like Amharic, Dari, Pashtu, Bengali, Urdu and so on.
were not fully developed as usable Unicode-based characters or Open type fonts.
C-DAC's GIST took up the challenge for Bengali, Hindi and Urdu scripts and developed a tailor-made solution to meet the specific requirements of DW-Online.
The process involved extensive interaction between C-DAC GIST and DW to address finer details and the process is ongoing to incorporate further improvements in the future.
The Bengali and Hindi Services of DW-Radio have also been using C-DAC GIST products like iLEAP & LEAP Office 2000 with satisfaction.
"When the requirement for a Bengali Open-type font came up, C-DAC's GIST was the natural partner.
During my visit to C-DAC last year I was quite pleasantly surprised to meet a young, competent and vibrant team of employees full of innovative ideas.
It was certainly not something one would expect in a state controlled organization.
During my long and detailed interaction with C-DAC regarding the development of the Bengali Open-type font I was even more impressed by the flexibility, innovation and speed of work in C-DAC.
There were solutions practically for all problems", comments Sanjiv Burman, Editor, Bengali-Service, Deutsche Welle.
The new Bengali online service is the first of its kind offered by any leading international broadcasting organization.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Corporate Profile
Our Vision
Awards & Accolades
Citizen/Client Charter
HR Policies
Quality Policy
Annual Report
Audio-Visual Gallery
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, November 20, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
