#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=cs_cf_CSG_MOB
MobileCheck Forensic Solution for Mobile Phones & Smart Phones
MobileCheck is a digital forensics solution for Basic phones, Feature Phones, Smart phones and GPS Devices.
The solution supports acquisition, analysis and reporting of evidence from mobile devices.
The major tools in the MobileCheck solution are Imager, Analyser and SmartPASSeR
MobileCheckImager
The tool enables users to create forensics images of various types of mobile devices.
Supports more than 14000 phone models of various brands.
The major features of Imager are the following:-
Major Features
Supports Logical, Physical, MTP and Backup acquisition
Support acquisition using boot loader method for Android devices
Supports backup generation with APK downgrade in Android devices
Extracts Device details, Address Book, Call log, Social networking information, SMS/MMS, E-mails, Calendar, Tasks, Web browser logs, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth logs, Event logs, Apps Details, File system etc.
Supported smartphones.
iPhone, Android, Blackberry, Windows Phone, Windows Mobile and Symbian smart phones
Supported basic phones.
Nokia, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Micromax, LG, Motorola, Lava, Huawei, Karbonn and CDMA phones
Supported GPS devices.
MapMyIndia, Garmin and TomTom
Supports Memory Cards
Generate binary images for analysis in third party tools
The tool Supports SHA256/MD5 hashing
MobileCheck Analyser
MobileCheck Analyser enables investigators to perform complete analysis of the acquired phone images with its various built-in features.
The tool supports recovery evidence from logical/physical/MTP/backup of phone images and generate comprehensive report.
The major features Include
MobileCheck File Views
Analysis summary
Detailed view of Address book, Call logs, SMS/MMS, E-mail, File system etc
Recovery and display of deleted data
Built in Document, Multimedia and Web content viewers
Exif/Xmp information from pictures
Built in SQLite and PList File viewers
Gallery view of pictures, multimedia and database files
Plotting of Geo-locations in Google maps from GPX files
Analysis of raw images from other mobile forensics tools
Social networking Apps analysis
Support recovery and analysis of information from social networking apps such as Facebook, Skype, Instagram, Snapchat, Kik, Viber, Hangouts, Telegram , WhatsApp, Evernote, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, Dropbox, Google Plus, YahooMessenger, iMessage, Xender, SHAREit etc.
Visual Analytics
Link analysis of multiple phone images and cases with filtering facility
Timeline analysis of phone events
Search Facility
Keyword search, File search, Grid & Global search
Keyword search in multiple case images\
Efficient Case management
Support to Add/Delete evidence file to/from existing case window
Supports restoration of the last case analysis session.
Backup Analysis
Facility to import and analyse iPhone, Blackberry and Android backup files
Reports
Customized report generation with case related inputs from the user
SmartPASSeR, Smart Phone Android Screen Security Remover, is an unlocking tool for removing the PIN, Password and Pattern security feature from Samsung Android phones.
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Group Head, Cyber Security Group,
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram
email- csg@cdac.in,  tpc@cdac.in
Phone : 0471 2781500
header
