#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mc_ilf_gsdk
GIST SDK
The GIST SDK is a software development tool for Indian languages on MS Windows.
This is a set of software components that enables software developers to facilitate the use of Indian scripts with MS Windows applications.
Unlike other solutions, the significant feature of GIST SDK is that it enables the MS Windows application to process ISCII data directly.
ISCII enables alphabetic sorting, transliteration and data exchange and reusability in a uniform manner.
The GIST SDK uses ActiveX Technology from Microsoft and provides a seamless, transparent and self contained Indian language layer for data entry, storage, retrieval and printing in Indian scripts for MS Windows applications.
It is based on COM standards and can be used with any of the latest application development tools providing "OLE container" support.
GIST SDK consists of a set of Dynamic Linked Libraries (DLL's) with necessary API, a set of ActiveX controls and True Type fonts to enable integration with your MS Windows application.
Salient Features:
Develop completely self contained Indian language enabled applications rapidly and easily, using standard front-end development tools
Seamless, transparent Indian language layer
Integrated keyboard driver for typing in Indian languages with ActiveX Controls
Bi-lingual data input, storage and display.
Special bi-lingual True Type Fonts to enable intermixing of English characters with Indian script characters
Facilitates online sorting, indexing and complete editing control in 10 Indian scripts
No hardware or software based protection devices required to ship with your application
License to distribute the GIST SDK components with the Windows applications
DOE/BIS phonetic INSCRIPT keyboard overlay common for all Indian scripts
The GIST SDK consists of the following main components:
Insertable GIST ActiveX Controls:
GEdit Control
GListview Control
GTreeview Control
GMsgBox Control
GPushButton Control
GCheckBox Control
GRadioButton Control
GStatic Control
GGroupBox Control
GListBox Control
GFlexigridV3 Control
GistComboBox Control
GMEdit Control
GTime Control
ISFOC Fonts (including Web fonts)
The ISM API Library
Sample Applications in VB, VC, C++ Builder, Delphi and .Net (1.0 as well as 1.1) and detailed help file covering all controls and API.
Utilities, Tools, Presentations / Tutorials and all that you need to create desktop Indian Language Applications for the PC-User.
What is New in GIST SDK version 3
New controls
GListView
List view control capable of handling ISCII data and label editing.
Supports Large (standard) Icons, Small Icons, List and Report views.
Supports images of various formats.
Edit control with support for left, center or right alignment of whole text, Indian language Tooltip and Indian Language context menu (on right click).
GMsgbox
Message box, Alerts or warnings in Indian languages.
It supports various button styles (OK-Cancel, Retry and so on) with Icons (Information, Critical and so on).
The button captions, Font and so on are configurable.
Analog - Digital clock, Day - Date can be returned as ISCII values.
Supports various day-date formats
GTreeView
Tree view control, capable of handling ISCII data and label editing.
Support for changing script-key/toggle key at runtime
Support for Bold, Italic Fonts
Support for Manipuri script
Web-Font Support
header
