#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot851
India’s Fastest Supercomputer 'Param Yuva II' Unveiled
India’s Fastest Supercomputer 'Param Yuva II' Unveiled
International Business Time
February 09, 2013
The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) launched India's fastest supercomputer 'Param Yuva II' on Friday.
The Param Yuva II, the country's fastest computer and the 62nd fastest in the world, was unveiled at C-DAC Pune.
Speaking on the occasion of the launch J Satyanarayana, secretary, department of electronics and information technology, expressed his gratitude to the central government for the commitment to make the country a destination of advanced technologies.
He also appreciated the C-DAC Pune members for the successful launch of the 500 TeraFlop 'Param Yuva II'.
"While the Indian IT sector has always been at the top, the dynamics of the market especially in the light of financial meltdowns force us to take a re-look at juggling our priorities.
Advanced R&D in emerging areas can be a major interest area for India as nations struggle to find viable solutions within budget constraints.
Computational infrastructure and trained manpower will be the initial requirements to take the initiative forward.
The Government of India has always been in support of the R&D community and with institutions like C-DAC leading the way forward, the future certainly looks bright for the nation, " said Satyanarayana.
Param Yuva II will be mainly used by the scientific institutes, research laboratories and universities.
The newly launched supercomputer will help in predicting weather, Aircraft designing and finding natural resources.
"Areas like weather forecasting, seismic data analysis, and scientific data processing will all be benefitted due to Param Yuva II.
We were doing weather forecasting of over 58,000 villages with param yuva.
Now we can double that number at a minimum.
Industries like pharmaceuticals, bio informatics, aeronautical engineering will also benefit.
Seismic data processing can be done much more efficiently with this new computer, " said Hemant Darbari, executive director of C-DAC.
The project was initiated in the year 2012 and involved around 300 people from the C-DAC team.
header
