#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mlc_gist_lips_digital
Multilingual Computing - GIST
LIPS Digital
Viewing and enjoying a movie or television program in an unknown language has been made possible with the help of subtitling technology pioneered by C-DAC GIST.
Moving from the analogue broadcast medium to digital, GIST labs have developed a subtitling system which supports Digital Video Broadcast standards.
With this, the viewer now has choice of selecting the language for the subtitle at a click of a button.
How LIPS Digital works?
The subtitling system generates multilingual subtitle streams in DVB defined (ETSI EN 300 743) bitmap based subtitling format.
Subtitles are generated as a graphical bitmap and then encoded and compressed into the DVB delivery format.
The system generated subtitle stream is then multiplexed with the video, audio, data and then transmitted as part of the station's output transport stream to the Transmitter.
The viewer’s set-top-box / IDTV receives the subtitle data stream, decodes and re-constructs the subtitles in the decoder's memory and displays the subtitle on-screen at appropriate time.
The viewer can also select whether to display subtitles or not and choose the language of his choice.
Salient features:
Supports both SD and HD subtitles
Supports Indian languages and International languages (Unicode support)
Aesthetically designed TV fonts for high resolution graphics
Language independent bitmap subtitles
Solution Pluggable with any DTH transmission set up
User can switch ON / OFF the subtitles
Menu to select different language subtitles for each channel
Subtitles with different fonts, font size and styles like bold, Italic, underline etc.
Subtitles with effects like background color, foreground color, outline color, edge, shadow etc.
Preview and Timer facilityto subtitles
Local alerts and emergency messages targeted to specific local region
Instinctive User Interface
Hearing impaired friendly interaction
Download Brochure(PDF Document.
Size: 519 Kb, Date: 8/7/2015)
header
