#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ca_CDACAdvt_Consolidated06102021
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram invites applications for the post of Project Officer and Project Support Staff on consolidated salary, purely on contract basis
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Advt. No.: CDAC (T)/RCT/06/2021 dated
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), is a Scientific Society under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India.
C-DAC has today emerged as a premier R&D organization in ICT&E (Information, Communications Technologies and Electronics) in the country, working on strengthening national technological capabilities in the context of global developments in the field and responding to change in the market need in selected foundation areas.
C-DAC represents a unique facet working in close conjunction with MeitY to implement nation's policy and pragmatic interventions and initiatives in Information Technology.
As an institution for high-end Research and Development (R&D), C-DAC has been at the forefront of the Information, Communications Technologies and Electronics (ICT&E) revolution, constantly building capacities in emerging/enabling technologies and innovating and leveraging its expertise, caliber and skill sets to develop and deploy products and solutions for different sectors of the economy.
C-DAC's areas of expertise range from R&D work in ICT&E Technologies to Product Development, IP Generation, Technology Transfer and Deployment of Solutions.
Primary Thematic or Thrust Areas addressed by C-DAC are:
High Performance Computing and Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics, VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram is looking for bright & result oriented professionals for various projects.
The following positions are available purely on contract basis on consolidated emolument initially for a period of 01 (One) year or co-terminus with the project whichever is earlier.
However, term of contract may be considered for extension for a further period of another one year based on performance of the incumbent and requirement of the project.
Designation
Post Code
No. of Post
Consolidated Salary per month
Upper Age Limit not exceeding
(as on last date prescribed for registration)
Project Officer (Finance)
TVPM/PO:01
Rs. 26500/-
30 Years
Project Support Staff (Finance)
TVPM/PSS:01
Rs. 12300/-
28 Years
Project Support Staff (Purchase)
TVPM/PSS:02
Project Support Staff (HR)
TVPM/PSS:03
Rs. 14100/-
32 Years
Project Support Staff (Official Language-Hindi)
TVPM/PSS:04
Project Support Staff (Official Language-Hindi)
TVPM/PSS:05
Rs. 17000/-
37 Years
Post: 01
Post Code:
No. of Posts
02 (Two)
Duration of the position
01 (One) Year.
Educational Qualification
CA / CS
OR
Two years full time MBA (Finance) / Post Graduate in Commerce or equivalent with at least 3 years post qualification work experience in the relevant field.
Work experience
At-least 3 years of post-qualification work experience in Accounts Finalization and audit related matters of a large organization having an annual turnover of not less than 50 crores, with in depth working knowledge of Taxation and related statutory compliances/Project Accounts and internal control procedures & Project related Accounting preferably in a Govt. organization.
Good working knowledge of Tally Software and MS office.
Desirable
Experience in Government / Autonomous / PSU will be an added advantage.
Consolidated salary in pay range
Rs.26500/- in the pay range of Rs.26500 - 220000
Minimum CTC/Annual Pay Package shall be Rs. 376168/- approx.
Should not exceed 30 years as on the last date prescribed for registration of application.
Relaxation applicable as per Government of India norms.
Post: 02
Post Code:
Duration of the position
01 (One) Year.
Graduates with at least 50% marks and at least 03 years of post-qualification work experience in the relevant field.
Post Graduate with at least 50% marks at Graduate level.
Good working experience in routine accounting functions and taxation preferably from Government organizations/ PSU/Companies including bank/ledger accounts reconciliations, invoicing, verification and disbursement of bills and claims, GST/ TDS and other statutory compliances with good working knowledge of Tally software and MS office etc.
Rs.12300/- in the pay range of Rs. 12300 - 64500
Minimum CTC/Annual Pay Package shall be Rs. 191568/- approx.
Should not exceed 28 years as on the last date prescribed for registration of application.
Post: 03
Post Code:
Duration of the position
Materials management, import and indigenous procurements, purchase process, Import documentation, Cargo clearance, Customs / sales tax formalities, follow up and interaction with suppliers and various agencies with good communication and language skill.
Stores management, inventory control, receipt & issue of materials, material handling, preparation of Goods Receipt, Inspection reports, rejection & replacement, Bin card & Stores Ledger, related documentation and maintenance of stores records.
Post: 04
Post Code:
Duration of the position
01 (One) Year.
Graduates with at least 50% marks and at least 07 years of post-qualification work experience in the relevant field.
Post Graduate with atleast 50% marks at Graduate level and 03 years of post-qualification work experience in the relevant field.
Experience in establishment and service matters, recruitment activities, public relation, transport arrangements, front office management, legal activities and materials management.
Rs.14100/- in the pay range of Rs.12300 - 64500
Minimum CTC/Annual Pay Package shall be Rs. 252668/- approx..
Should not exceed 32 years as on the last date prescribed for registration of application.
Post: 05
Post Code:
Duration of the position
Graduates in any discipline with at least 50% marks and at least 3 years post qualification work experience in relevant field.
Post qualification experience in Hindi Typing /Translation from Hindi to English and vice versa /Teaching.
Should have minimum 25 words typing speed per minute, both in Hindi and English.
Should possess good knowledge in the use of Computers.
Post: 06
Post Code:
Duration of the position
Graduates in any discipline with at least 50% marks and at least 11 years post qualification work experience in relevant field.
Should possess post qualification work experience in Hindi Typing / Translation from Hindi to English and vice versa /Teaching.
Rs.17000/- in the pay range of Rs.12300 - 64500
Should not exceed 37 years as on the last date prescribed for registration of application.
Candidates are permitted to apply for ONE post ONLY.
Submission of multiple applications may result in cancellation of applications altogether.
Click here to apply online
(Comfortable with latest version of Mozilla Firefox/Chrome)
NOTE: To fill up "Online" application the candidates need to logon to the website www.cdac.in and click on apply button.
Read the instructions carefully and proceed.
Use latest version of Mozilla Firefox/Chrome.
Please Note that the appointment against the above mentioned positions is purely on contract basis on consolidated pay for a fixed duration and against specific approved projects.
The candidates are advised to visit C-DAC website regularly for notices /information.
Corrigendum/Extension etc., if any, shall be published in our website www.cdac.in only.
How to Apply:
Candidates are required to apply online on or before 20.10.2021.
No other mode of application will be accepted.
The application portal will be operational from 06.10.2021, 10.00 hoursto 20.10.2021 till 2359 hours.
Registration done prior to 06.10.2021 and after 20.10.2021 will not be accepted.
Candidate should have a valid email id and mobile no. which should remain valid & active till the completion of selection process.
Candidates should scan their photograph and signature in jpeg format and keep it ready for uploading while applying online.
Instructions for uploading the photograph and signature are available on the online application port.
A unique application number will be generated by the system, please note this application number for future reference and use.
Candidates are required to submit hard copy of their application forms alongwith Demand Draft and self-attested copy of other testimonial viz educational qualification and experience etc.
Candidates presently working in a Government / Semi-Government / Public Sector Undertaking / Autonomous Body funded by Government are required to bring a "No Objection Certificate" from their present employer at the time of selection process (interview/skill test), if called for, failing which they will not be permitted to participate in the selection process (interview/skill test).
Payment:
Candidates are required to pay a non-refundable application fee in the form of Demand Draft only (no other form of remittance is entertained) drawn on any nationalized bank in favour of "C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram, " payable at Thiruvananthapuram as per details below:-
Project Officer:-
Rs.590/ (Rs. 500/- processing fee with 18% GST) for male candidates.
Rs. 295/- (Rs. 250/- processing fee with 18% GST) for female candidates.
Project Support Staff :-
Rs. 295/- (Rs. 250/- processing fee with 18% GST) for male candidates.
Rs. 118/- (Rs.100/- processing fee with 18% GST) for female candidates.
Candidates will have to enter the Demand Draft number in the online registration form.
Therefore, it is advisable that you may take the Demand Draft before the final step of online registration process.
Please mention name of the applicant, Application Number and name of post applied for on the backside of the Demand Draft and should be sent alongwith hard copy of online application and self-attested copies of educational and experience certificates in an envelope super-scribed "APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ____________ (Post Code ________)" by post to the address mentioned below so as to reach this office on or before 29.10.2021.
Payment is towards administrative expenses for the selection process and fee once paid will not be refunded.
No fee shall be payable by candidates belonging to SC/ST/PWD category.
IMPORTANT DATES:
Commencement of on-line registration of application by candidates.
06.10.2021 at 1000 hrs.
ii)
Last date for online registration of application by candidate.
20.10.2021till 2359 hrs.
iii)
Last date for receipt of hard copy of application by Post.
29.10.2021 till 1700 hrs.
General information and other conditions:
All applicants must fulfill the essential requirements of the post and other conditions stipulated in the advertisement as on the last date for online registration of the application by the candidate.
They are advised to satisfy themselves before applying that they possess at least the essential qualifications laid down for the post as on the last date for online registration of applications.
No enquiry asking for advice as to eligibility will be entertained.
Online Registration System does not check whether the information provided by the candidates makes them eligible for the post advertised.
In case, this turns out to be false, such candidates will not be allowed to participate in the selection process (interview/skill test) as applicable even if they have passed the screening test.
The candidates alone are responsible for the authenticity of information provided by them.
Any wrong information provided will make them automatically disqualified for the selection process ( interview / skill test) as applicable, irrespective of the ranking obtained in the test.
Candidates are required to appear for the test and subsequent selection process (interviews/skill test) as applicable, at their own cost.
Canvassing in any form and bringing outside influence shall be a disqualification for selection.
The date for determining the upper age limit, qualifications and /or experience shall be the closing date prescribed for online registration of application form i.e. on 20.10.2021.
Reservation:
Reservation for SC/ST/OBC/EWS will be applicable as per Govt. of India norms, as applicable to C-DAC.
Relaxation/ Age Limit:
Applicants belonging to the reserved category (SC/ST/OBC) / PWD/ Ex-servicemen would be eligible for relaxations according to the Government of India norms.
Government employees will be eligible for relaxation in age by 5 years including other age relaxations.
C-DAC internal candidates will also be eligible for an age relaxation of 5 years including other age relaxations.
Mode of Selection:
Selection shall be through a written test followed by personal interview /skill test as applicable
Screening: The qualification and experience prescribed are the minimum requirements and possession of the same does not automatically make the candidates entitled to be called for test and other selection process (interview/skill test) as applicable.
There will be an initial screening based on the academic and other parameters given in the on-line application.
However, the management reserves the right to increase the minimum eligibility criteria/cut of limits, at its discretion in the event of large number of applications received for any post (s).
Applicants meeting the eligibility criteria will be informed by e-mail, to appear for a test (written/online)/and subsequent interview/skill test.
The test will be objective / descriptive type.
The question paper will contain questions from the following areas to assess the candidate's proficiency in:-
Part-A : General Aptitude, Mental Ability and Reasoning (Logical reasoning).
Part-B : English, Letter drafting and Short essays on General Topics.
Part-C : Knowledge in the specific domain to which selection is made /work experience.
The list of successful/shortlisted candidates on the basis of test would be uploaded on CDAC website.
Management reserves the right to change/modify the selection process at any time, during the process, at its discretion.
The decision of the management will be final and binding.
Qualification:
In respect of equivalent clause in essential qualifications, submission of equivalency certificate duly authenticated by the appropriate authority is mandatory at the time of selection process and the onus for submitting the same purely rests upon the candidates, failing which the application is liable to be rejected.
Wherever CGPA/OGPA or letter grade in a qualifying degree is awarded, equivalent percentage of marks should be indicated in the application form as per norms adopted by the respective University/Institute.
Please also obtain a certificate to this effect from University / Institute, which shall be required at the time of selection process.
Experience:
The period of experience rendered by a candidate on part time basis, daily wages, visiting/ guest faculty will not be counted while calculating the valid experience for short listing the candidates for the test and further selection process (interview/skill test ) as applicable.
Only those experiences which are relevant and acquired after the passing date of the essential qualification will only be considered.
The decision of C-DAC in this regard will be final and binding.
Important points to note
It is the responsibility of the candidates to assess his/her own eligibility for the post for which he/she is applying in accordance with the advertisement.
In case, it is found at any point of time in future during the process of selection or even after appointment that the candidate was not eligible as per prescribed qualification, experience etc, which could not be detected at the time of selection due to whatever circumstances, his/her candidature/appointment shall be liable to be cancelled/terminated as the case may be.
In case any ambiguity/dispute arises on account of interpretation of version other than English, English version will prevail.
Mere issue of call letter for test/selection process (interview/skill test) as applicable, will not imply acceptance of candidature or selection for the post.
In case of internal candidates, please note that, selected candidates will have to resign from the existing services in order to join the post as fresh employees.
Candidates must be in sound health and ready to undergo Pre- Employment Medical Examination as per C-DAC norms.
Only Short-listed candidates will be allowed/called for test.
Those who are shortlisted in the test only will be eligible to attend further process of the selection.
Candidates will be informed by email only and no separate communication will be sent.
Kindly note that the Centre has not authorized any agent/ agency for representing C-DAC for anything related to recruitment or its processes.
All the posts will be filled as per the Recruitment Rules or guidelines of C-DAC.
The person selected for contract appointment will not have any claim or right for his/her continuity in service, regularization or automatic extension of the term of contract.
These posts are transferable from one project to another.
Candidates are advised to keep checking the website (www.cdac.in) for any information updates.
NO INTERIM ENQUIRY OR CORRESPONDANCE WILL BE ENTERTAINED.
Sr. Admn. Officer (HR)
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC)
Post Box No.6520, Vikasbhavan P.O
Vellayambalam, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 033
High Performance Computing,
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, October 05, 2021
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
