#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=about
About C-DAC
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is the premier R&D organization of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) for carrying out R&D in IT, Electronics and associated areas.
Different areas of C-DAC, had originated at different times, many of which came out as a result of identification of opportunities.
more »
Organizational Chart
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Organizational Chart more»
Our Vision, Mission & Values
C-DAC has a well defined and understood vision, which C-DACians strive to achieve through mutually agreed mission statements and goals.
For a better understanding of our Vision and Mission statement, read this section.
Who's who
A directory of the senior officials at C-DAC.
Awards & Accolades
C-DAC's achievements, awards won and accolades received are highlighted here.
Success Stories & Testimonials
Our customers are our best and most credible ambassadors.
Let them inform you of C-DAC's superiority in the traditional client/server and the rapidly growing eBusiness/eCommerce applications market.
C-DAC's Citizen / Client Charter
The Citizen/Client Charter is to provide means of exploring choice of consultation, grievance redressal and value for money.
It intends to fulfill the commitment of C-DAC towards its clients/customers.
Quality Policy
In all its areas of activities, be it development, administration or services, C-DAC is conscious of its quality and quality processes, which are ISO certified.
Right to Information Act
An Act to provide for setting out the practical regime of right to information for citizens.
HR Policies
Our HR Policies are innovative and member friendly and are aimed at ensuring the growth, development of and benefits for our members.
Audio - Visual Gallery
The audio-visual gallery contains streaming media files on the activities, achievements, and developments at C-DAC, as covered by the media.
Annual Reports
C-DAC's annual performance over each year, summarized in the Annual Reports can be accessed here.
header
About Cdac
whos who
Awards and Accolades
Success Stories and Testimonials
Cdac Citizen
Quality policy
Audio Visual Gallery
