#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hpc_nsf_npsfaff
Technical Affiliation Scheme
Technical Affiliation Scheme (TAS)
Supercomputing facilities like NPSF have to run with highest uptime and adequate technical support to provide quality service to its users.
Keeping in view the practice followed worldwide, a scheme, called the Technical Affiliation Scheme (TAS) is introduced with an objective of encouraging the potential users of high performance computing resources in a cost-effective way and also provides a state-of-the-art technically congenial environment to the researchers using the NPSF.
This scheme is introduced to provide supercomputing facility to various industries as well as academic and R&D institutions within India to process their diverse applications which require supercomputing power.
For a long time it has not been economically viable for the Indian industry and academic/R&D institutions to use high performance supercomputers.
This scheme is a step in the direction to address the problem by providing state-of-the-art PARAM Yuva II HPC resources to Indian residents users.
For this, any interested Indian resident user has to get enrolled as a Technical Affiliate of NPSF in order to use the computing resources of NPSF.
They can then use NPSF resources on certain terms and conditions, details of which can be obtained on request from NPSF Help desk.
To use PARAM Yuva II, a person needs to first become a Technical Affiliate of the National PARAM Supercomputing Facility.
For this the prospective resident India user/affiliate has to fill up the TAS form.
The form is to be filled for every single project that the prospective affiliate wants to register for using NPSF resources.
The primary prospective affiliate/user who registers as the Chief Investigator is expected to be a Faculty member/Research Scientist/ Professor at any Indian research organization/institute/university.
The Chief Investigator can request for additional accounts associated with this project for e.g. for his/her Ph. D. /M.
Tech.
students as well as collaborators.
In the form, the Chief Investigator also gives an estimate of amount of CPU time required for the particular project and the funding details.
Once the request is approved by the authorities, the system account and project accounts are created.
The requested and approved CPU time (in CPU seconds) is credited into the corresponding project accounts.
Once the user starts submitting jobs, the appropriate project account is debited as per the job's CPU time consumption.
Contact Us
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
The National PARAM Supercomputing Facility (NPSF)
Pune University Campus, Ganeshkhind
Pune-411007
Phone No. : +91-20-25704183
Email: npsfhelp [at] cdac [dot] in
header
