#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=cs_cf_SOCServiceHome
SOC- as-a-Service
CDAC provides 24x7 Managed Security Services and Managed Detection and Response services to organizations across verticals with a centralized security monitoring system, enabling to detect & respond to any cyber security incident.
Services offered by CDAC shall eliminate the need for large capital and manpower investment for an in-house Security Operations Centre (SOC)
CDAC SOC-as-a-Service offering:
Security threats monitoring
CDAC shall monitor security threats/ events using SIEM tool installed by the client organization or set up created by CDAC.
CDAC shall also deploy and create use-cases using feeds from security advisory agencies like CERT-In, NCIIPC etc. The alerts and notifications from various regulatory bodies shall also be closely followed during the 24 x 7 Managed Security operations.
Advisory services
As part of advisory support, CDAC shall critically analyse and advise organizations on the security threats and existing vulnerabilities.
CDAC shall advise client organization on measures to be taken on its network/server infrastructure to protect against vulnerabilities and to clear any shortfalls identified by third party auditors as part of security audit.
CDAC shall help organizations with governance & risk compliance requirements offering 360-degree protection against potential cyber security threats.
Anti-phishing and Anti-rogue monitoring
CDAC shall pro-actively monitor the websites of client organization for any phishing attempts and shall provide advice on the incident with detailed information.
Managed Detection and Response (MDR) Services
Managed Detection and Response (MDR) is an advanced managed security service that provides threat intelligence, threat hunting, security monitoring, incident analysis, and incident response.
The following activities shall be carried out on a regular manner to face the challenges and protect the assets.
Identification of the vulnerabilities on monitored assets before attackers
Identification of early warning signs of threat scenarios, especially with a monitoring of suspicious changes in organization IT infrastructure systems or suspicious activities over Internet
Identification of compromised assets or data leaks;
Identification of the risk exposure as seen by third parties.
Device Health Monitoring
CDAC shall offers device health monitoring as an additional service.
The Health and Availability of Network and other critical infrastructure shall be monitored on 24x7 service window.
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Group Head, Cyber Security Group,
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram
Email- csg@cdac.in,  tpc@cdac.in
header
