#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=lu_digital_india_anniversary
Digital India Anniversary Celebration
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Digital India Anniversary Celebration
Latest Updates
Digital India Anniversary Celebration
112 ERSS
is a single emergency response number '112' to handle different distress signals from citizens (voice, panic messages, email, web, SMS etc.), on a central platform.
Aayurprakriti Web API
Aayurprakriti Web API is an effort in making the ayurvedic concept of prakriti available over internet and standardizing its usage across web, mobile app for both modern medicine , Ayush medicine practitioners, Researchers and students.
Android On Screen Keyboard
Android On Screen Keyboard is a unified virtual Keyboard for Indian Languages on Android Platform
Anuman
Anuman offers the latest weather updates on mobile
Anvaya
A Workflow Environment for High Throughput Comparative Genomics: Anvaya is a software application consisting of interface to Bioinformatics tools and databases in a workflow environment, to execute the set of analyses tools in series or in parallel.
Big Data in Biology
Biological Bigdata management and analytics become essential to produce a wealth of fruitful information beneficial for healthcare
BRAF
The Bioinformatics Resources & Applications Facility (BRAF) at C-DAC, is an effort providing high-end supercomputing facility to the researchers working in the areas of Bioinformatics.
Digital Biology
An approach to address the large scale of data in the field of Biology
E-Vidur
E-Vidur is a real time sentiment analysis for social media streams.
GIST Linguistic Translator Workbench
Linguistic Translator workbench is a powerful and easy to use translation editor equipped with built in translation assets like Prediction engine, Named Entity Identification and Tagging, Transliteration, Translation Memories, Glossary, WordNet to name a few.
GoTranslate
GoTranslate is GIST online translation framework whereby citizens can contribute in translating webpages.
Gowrite
GIST online writer independent Text Entry System is a handwritten recognition technology
IDN
Internationalised Domain Names facilitates domain names in any languages
Kanthasth
"Kanthasth" is a module which provides a framework which stores bilingual data (English-Hindi) from all over India, on a centralised repository.
The Translation Memory, ensures the reusability of the existing data, in-turn, providing increased accuracy & efficiency of translation.
LILA
Learn Indian Languages through Artificial intelligence is multi-media based intelligent self-tutoring application for learning Hindi.
LILA Pravah
LILA Hindi Pravah is a Web & Mobile based self-tutoring system which includes a collection of narration of few prominent stories and poems of renowned writes of India.
Meri Sadak App
A citizen feedback system under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana.
PARAM Shavak VR
promises to take the entire experience of research and learning to a new level through interactive VR experiences like simulation and provide greater scientific insights.
PARAM SHIVAY
PARAM SHIVAY is a supercomputing system developed under NSM build approach is inaugurated by Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi at IIT (BHU), Varanasi.
PARAM Shreshta
PARAM Shreshta is an entry level supercomputing system designed by C-DAC under National Supercomputing Mission keeping an eye onm the computational needs of the various research, engineering and MSME industries with a peak compute power of 100 TeraFlops.
PARAM Yuva II
at National PARAM Supercomputing Facility (NPSF), C-DAC Pune caters to more than 1100 users across various scientific/research/academic institutes in India.
Till date NPSF is the only facility of its kind to offer HPC-As-A-Service and has allocated more that 194 crores CPU hours and has processed 3.7 lakh jobs.
This has culminated into 49 PhDs and 322 publications in Journals and conference proceedings.
PMJAY
PMJAY-AYUSHMAN BHARAT-PRADHAN MANTRI JAN AROGYA YOJANA
Sangam Lab
A test bed for evaluating the current hardware architecture.
Speech Technology
Speech Technology from AAI: This is a general purpose continuous automatic speech recognition system.
This uses Speech Technology, Machine translation for real time speech to speech translation.
TIDE
TIDE-Provides oppurtunities for young innovators to leap frog with economy
Urban Air India
It is an expert system that deals with various components of air quality management viz. air quality monitoring, emission inventory, dispersion and receptor modeling, and multiple scenario analysis
WAMIS
WAMIS (Works & Account managemenbt system) is a generic public infrastructure project management and monitoring framework
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Corporate Profile
Our Vision
Success Stories
Awards & Accolades
Citizen/Client Charter
HR Policies
Quality Policy
Annual Report
Audio-Visual Gallery
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Saturday, June 29, 2019
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
Photo_Video
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
