#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_his_Sushrut_Registeration
Sushrut Registration
E-Sushrut
Out-Patient Management
Investigations
Billing
Operation Theatre
Blood Bank
Enquiry
Master Management
Central Sterile Services
Diet Kitchen
Bio-Medical Engineering
Central Stores
Pharmacy Management
Patient Medical Records
Registration of the patient is the foremost activity in the overall Hospital Information System.
Every patient who approaches a hospital has to get registered prior to getting any consultation, treatment, and investigations done from the hospital.
Registration of patients involves accepting certain general and demographic information about the patient.
The patient is given a unique central registration number (CI No.). The Patient is also given a patient identification card, known as Registration Card.
Different categories of Registrations are:
Normal
Staff
Emergency
VIP/Senior Citizen
Normal registrations are done in the routine OPD timings.
Emergency Registration is done for the patients who require immediate medical attention.
The patients getting registered under this category are basically:
Out-patients whose unit is not working on that day
Medico-Legal Cases
Patients requiring immediate medical attention
Patients coming after the OPD hours also are registered as Emergency Patients.
Staff Registration takes care of the registrations related to all the staff members of the hospital.
Input/Screen Interfaces
Capturing Demographic Details: The Registration module captures the demographic details of the patient.
A patient is assigned a unique 12 digit Central Identification Number.
Visit Creation for the Old Patients: Every time a patient visits the hospital after registering, the visit gets stamped.
Change of Department: This facility is provided to record the change of the department, in which the patient is registered.
Duplicate Card Printing: Since the OPD card tends to get filled there is a facility to reprint this card.
Modification Request: There is a provision to handle subsequent modification requests in registration data.
Reports/Graphical Output:
Printing of Normal OPD registration card
Printing of OPD register department wise
Printing a report on number of registrations department wise
Printing a report on number of total emergency registrations
Printing a report on number of registrations User wise
Cash collection department-wise on a daily basis
Cash collection user-wise on a daily basis
For Further Details Please Contact:
Health Informatics Division
Anusandhan Bhawan, C-56/1, Institutional Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-3063314
email: pksrivastava [at] cdac [dot] in
header
