#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot932
India set to build supercomputer grid
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
Hindustan Times
October 06, 2014
Determined to raise India’s ranking in the world of high-performance computers, the government is set to clear a Rs. 4,500-crore ($730 million) mission this month to build supercomputers nearly 40 times quicker than our fastest one.
A finance ministry panel mandated to clear all big-ticket investments recently okayed the National Supercomputing Mission, jointly steered by the department of science and technology and the department of electronics and information technology.
"The seven-year-long project would be placed before cabinet soon, " a top government source told HT.
The mission intends to set up 73 supercomputing facilities on a buy-and-build approach at academic and research institutions across the country and network them into a grid.
Three of them — the first ones to be set up over the first three years — would be India’s first supercomputers capable of peta-scale computing and would join a global league of just 37 such machines.
Peta-scale computing refers to the ability to add at least a quadrillion (1,000 trillion) real numbers in a second.
“This speed is equivalent to 5,000-6,000 high-end laptops working in tandem, ” said Professor Rajat Moona, director general of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing that gave India her first supercomputer.
"This would boost high-performance computing for India several fold, " added K VijayRaghavan, secretary, science and technology department.
The seven-year plan has been divided into two phases - the first three years for construction of the machines and the next four for the applications that will use this grid.
The supercomputers will occupy a space of over 20,000 square feet, or the size of 10 three-bedroom apartments.
At present, India has two supercomputing machines in the world’s top 100, and nine in the top 500.
Its fastest supercomputer at the Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology is ranked 52.
A little less than half of all supercomputers in the top 500 - 233 - are in the US.
But the world's fastest, Tianhe-2 (MilkyWay-2), belongs to China’s National University of Defense Technology.
A late entrant, China has 75 other supercomputers on the list - nearly as many as Japan (30), France (27) and Germany (23) put together.
"The new grid could be the first step in our desire to have a supercomputer machine in the top 20 list, " said Moona, pointing out that this could make a world of difference to the quality of research in the country.
"This can be transformative for our high-end training efforts and for developing home-grown applications for our needs in basic science and in applications in medicine, agriculture and technology, " said Vijay Raghavan.
"Engineering problems such as weather and climate modelling, computational fluid dynamics, computational structural mechanisms are other areas of applications.
Space research can also get a boost, " added Moona.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
