#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot861
CBSE goes virtual with OLabs for schoolkids
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
CBSE goes virtual with OLabs for schoolkids
The Times of India
March 04, 2013
To promote experimentation in learning, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has come up with an online lab for school experiments (OLabs) for students of classes IX and X.
A novel e-learning project, the online lab is based on the concept of virtual learning environment which provides experience in online practical science experiments to the students.
The content for OLabs is mapped and aligned to the CBSE curriculum for classes IX and X. Using the virtual labs, students can study and use mathematical techniques to demonstrate various complex functions in diverse areas of science.
The experiments are demonstrated using interactive simulations based on mathematical models, videos and rich interactive animations to create real world environments.
CBSE teachers in the city opined that these virtual experiments will stimulate students' interest and learning and will give them the experience of doing real lab work, by graphically simulating the laboratory equipment through a virtual medium.
"Students can practise these experiments at their leisure and use it for revising the concept even at home and as many times as they wish.
For teachers, the online labs are helpful in demonstrating the experiments in class or in laboratory as it will provide minutest details with complete clarity, '' said a CBSE officer.
How will it help students?
OLabs will help overcome limitations faced by some students in schools across the country due to either insufficient time or instruments in laboratories.
"It is also capable of assessing a student's observations, procedural and reporting skills, and will allow teachers to track the student usage, thus making learning more effective, " reads the circular sent to Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, CBSE regional officers.
But there is a section of teachers who believe that shortage of good and trained teachers will pose a challenge for schools to go for virtual labs.
According to National Council of Educational Research and Training ( NCERT), there are a significant percentage of schools in India where lab facilities for the basic sciences is missing.
"The schools will have to first ensure that there are adequate resources available before setting of virtual labs, '' said a teacher.
What is advantageous for schools is that the CBSE's virtual lab concept is free of cost.
Currently, Olabs are being run in CDAC, Mumbai and Amrita University, Kerala.
The goals of these labs is to support learning in a virtual environment such that student learning equals that or is greater than if he or she were physically present in an actual lab.All labs are open source; many make available output from advanced research for free use by the entire student community in the nation.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
