#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_hypack13_topics_mode03_coprocessor
hyPACK-2013
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Registration
Topic of interest  | Tech.
Prog.
schedule | Topics : Multi-Cores | Topics : ARM Proc.
| Topics : Coprocessor| Topics : GPGPUs|  Topics : HPC Cluster | Topics : App.
Kernels.
| Topics : Lab.
Session
Key-Note / Invited Talks
hyPACK-2013 Topics of Interest : Mode-3 - Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessor
The focus is to understand tuning and performance of codes on Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessors using different programming paradigms.
The programming paradigms such as Offload Pragmas, OpenMP, MPI, Pthreads and OpenCL will be used to develop codes.
The tuning and performance aspects of programs on HPC Cluster with Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessors will be carried out.
Topics of interest such as Programming on Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessors; Xeon-Phi Coprocessor usage model : MPI vesus Offload; Compiler Vectorization features; Approaches to Vectorization - Complier Directives, Programming Paradigms - OpenMP, Intel TBB, Intel Cilk Plus; Intel MKL Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessor Architecture; Linux OS on Coprocessor; Coprocessor System software; Tuning Memory Allocation Performance - Huge Page Sizes; Profiling & Tuning Tools- PAPI & MPI tools; Tuning and Performance Issues- Power Consumption for Application Kernels will be discussed with hands-on sessions on Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessors.
Understanding Intel's MIC architecture and programming models for the Intel Xeon Phi coprocessor may enable programmers to achieve good performance of their applications.
The description of the hardware of the Intel Xeon Phi coprocessor through information about the basic programming models may assist the developer to port the applicaitons in an easy way.
Also, the information about porting programs and strategies how to analyze and improve the performance of applications is covered.
The Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessor offload pragmas can be used to port several applications in a Message Passing Cluster with Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessors.
Currently, the Xeon-Phi coprocessor is packaged as a separate PCIe device, external to the host processor.
The current PCIe packaging complicates the offload programming model in which any thread can access any data in a shared memory system with some overheads.
To achieve the high offload computational performance with external coprocessors requires that developers to do the following operations such as (1).
Transfer the data across the PCIe bus to the coprocessor and keep it there, (2).
Give the coprocessor enough work to do and (3) focus on data reuse within the coprocessor (s) to avoid memory bandwidth bottlenecks and moving data back and forth to the host processor.
Mode-3 : HPC Cluster with Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessors
Write your own program for NLA kernel codes using auto-parallelisation features on Xeon-Phi Coprocessors.
Analyze the compiler generated optimization reports for various problem sizes for typical matrix-matrix multiplication algorithms and obtain maximum achievable performance
Write your own program for NLA kernel codes with or without use of Intel MKL libraries, using Intel Compiler (loop optimization pragmas/directives) Automatic offload & Compiler-Assisted Offload
Write your own software modules for NLA Kernels using compiler auto-parallelization features of Intel Xeon-Phi and analyze the GAP generated optimization reports.
Summarize the performance and scalability issues for various problems size of your code.
Write your own Matrix Multiply Code using OpenMP Pragmas based on OpenMP thread affinity on Intel Xeon Phi Coprocessor.
Write your own Matrix Multiply Code using Intel MKL Thread Affinity on Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessors
Write your own software modules for NLA kernels using various clauses of SIMD Directives.
Analyze the Vectorization reports and summarize performance issues for different problems size.
Write your own suite of programs for NLA Kernels (Vector-Vector Addition, Matrix-Matrix Addition), using vector aligned data features of Intel Xeon-Phi using  declspec (align (*)).
Analyze Vectorization reports & summarize the performance issues for different problems size of your code.
You can use SIMD Directives & IVDEP Directives /PRAGMAS to assist for VECTORIZATION
Obtain the performance for Vector into Vector Multiplication and Matrix into Matrix Multiplication using Intel MKL Libraries on Intel XeonPhi Coprocessors & Automatic offload & Compiler-Assisted Offload
Write your own software modules for NLA kernels using Intel MKL with (a) compiler assisted offload (b) Reusing data that already exists in the memory of the coprocessor helps to reduce transferring data for an example which illustrates how to perform multiple operations on a single set of input matrices
Write your own program for NLA kernels with and without array operations using vectorization features
Write your own program for Matrix-Matrix Multiplication based on Block-partitioning of input matrices and use the Xeon-Phi Programming Environment features such as (a).
Allocated Persistent Storage on Co-Processor (b).
Asynchronous data transfer from the coprocessor to the processor (c).
Double buffers inputs to an offload
Write your own program to perform large scale I/O operations and quantify the overheads.
Write your own program to measure copy-memory bandwidth using openMP or Pthreads, using 8/16/32 cores of Intel Xeon-Phi with different work-loads, and analyze the performance
Obtain Performance of Stream - OpenMP benchmark on Intel Xeon-Phi and compare the performance with the output of previous example using different programming paradigms.
Write your own program to measure latency, bandwidth and quantify overheads using MPI point-to-point and Collective communications on Intel Xeon-Phi Coprocessors in a Message Passing Cluster with different message sizes & analyze the performance
Write your own software modules for NLA (SGEMM/ DGEMM) kernels code using openMP allocated memory on the heap aligned to 64 byte boundary & analyze the performance issues & scalability issues (Use #pragma vector aligned "#pragma ivdep" & "posix_memalign" for dynamic memory alignment)
Write your own program to analyze the CPU time, Xeon-Phi time, CPU-to-Xeon-Phi Data transfer time and Xeon-Phi-CPU data transfer time and quantify the time taken for different problem sizes with respect to the number of OpenMP threads used and understand data transfers over the PCIe bus from the host to the accelerator and vice versa
Write your own codes for NLA kernels & PDE Solver using MPI-OpenMP (with Collapse and without Collapse) and Loop un-rolling (nested loops) with Vectorization (ivdep and vector aligned) (use OpenMP supported four different kinds of loop scheduling.
Write your own program for implementation of PDE solver using Finite Difference Method (FDM) using OpenMP and MPI.
The computations are performed on host and the Coprocessors
Write your own program for implementation of PDE solver using Finite Element Method (FEM) in two-dimensional regions using MPI OpenMP in which the computations are performed on host and the Coprocessor.
Use features such as Overlap Computation and communication - Asynchronous Transfer & Double Buffering
Write your own program for NLA Kernels and an implementation of PDE solver by FDM in 2D regions using MPI OpenMP in which the computations are performed using MIC_KMP_AFFINITY=verbose, granularity = fine, scatter, compact, and gather
Write your own program for NLA Kernels and an implementation of PDE solver by FDM in 2D regions using Performance of Tuning OpenMP codes on Xeon-Phi Modifying Stack Size.
Write your own program for implementation of PDE solver using Finite Difference Method (FDM) using MPI & OpenMP, combination of MPI -OpenMP.
The software module should use larger 2MB pages.
The importance of larger pages for floating-point dominated FDM application is required as it performs array operation the computations on host and the Coprocessor
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
