#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_acts_CompanyTestimonials
Testimonials
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Education and Training
ACTS
ACTS Menu
Courses
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
PG-DAI : PG-Diploma in Artificial Intelligence
PG-DASSD : PG-Diploma in Advanced Secure Software Development
PG-DRAT : Post Graduate Diploma in Robotics & Allied Technologies
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
Testimonials
C-DAC Advanced Computing Training School (ACTS) provides quality Post Graduate Diploma Programs for Information Communication Technology (ICT) skill requirements across industries.
Aspirants can greatly benefit from C-DAC ACTS courses and build exemplary careers.
As a Fortune 500 company with over 170,000 employees worldwide, Johnson Controls appreciates C-DAC’s contribution to preparing skilled manpower for the Building Technology & Solutions industry.
--- Mr. Nilankur Mazumdar, Senior General Manager, India Human Resources, Johnson Controls India Pvt. Ltd.
CDAC delivered skillful and disciplined talent consistently throughout the years which made the institution one of our primary destinations for entry level hiring.
Kudos to CDAC Operations and management team for successful hiring drives.
--- Mr. Sanjay Kumar Singh, Vice President - Engineering, ATMECS Pvt. Ltd.
The environment influences the personality pattern most notably.
It encourages the maturation of potential of an individual, it provides personality pattern models which the individual uses as a guide and it provides needed learning opportunities.
And we feel CDAC ACTS Pune provides one such environment which molds fresh graduates into professionals more than ready enough to be absorbed by organizations.
From the past 4 years, every batch that we have hired from this premier institute has just not made a difference but left an exemplary mark.
The placement faculty are very professionally accommodative and have always lived beyond our expectations when comes to hospitality.
CDAC ACTS Pune is definitely a ‘Go to’ for you to get best of the fresh tech talents.
--- Mr. Michael Jackson, Senior Team Lead - Talent Acquisition Team, First American Pvt. Ltd.
Trained to work as one team in complex situations with the maturity to respect others point of view adding suggestions with the ability to quickly learn new technologies.
--- Mr. Rajesh Sarda, AVP – Technical Operations, Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd
C-Dacians are committed and take end-to-end ownership of tasks assigned to them.
They have good Java & scripting knowledge and excellent coding skills.
--- Mr. Byju Sathyadevan, AVP – Fulfilment Ericsson, Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd
C-DAC is an efficient and aspirational technical institute with bright students and abundant possibilities.
The institute has invested remarkable efforts in their students, many of whom are working proudly with Sapiens and adding value.
The standards set in their technical training are consistent with, and even surpass, the industry standard.
We look forward to continuing our beneficial relationship with the institute!
--- Ratika Gandotra, AVP Human Resource, SAPIENS
Zycus has been a regular visitor to C-DAC Campus.
The reason Zycus chooses C-DAC every year is the young and talented crowd over there.
Every year, we feel the same level of enthusiasm among the students and that’s the reason for even our excitement to visit the campus.
We have got many good resources from C-DAC who are doing a great job at Zycus.
We appreciate the efforts put in by the institute to train the students which have resulted in some of the excellent minds Zycus treasures.
Cheers!!
--- Ms. Tuhina Rani, Executive – Talent Acquisition, Zycus Pvt. Ltd.
We are associated with C-DAC since a year.
The placement department coordinates very well and make the overall recruitment process a good experience.
--- Ms. Hamsaz Vasunia, Head Human Resource, DCB Bank
We have been associated with C-DAC since year 2013!
It has been a successful association since the start and we found great fresh talent from different courses that C-DAC offers.
Having legacy of more than 110 years we “Knorr-Bremse” seek for the talent, focused on technology.
Our Business demands full of ‘Enthusiasm & Innovative Ideas and we are happy to convey that our expectations were fulfilled by C-DAC students.
We engage the employees on multiple technological platforms and the exposure that a fresh candidate gets, which has successfully prevented attrition & we have retained 100% C-DAC talent in past years.
We hope for continued successful association with C-DAC and look forward to enhancing the same on other platforms also.
--- Ms. Chandra Nataraja, Managing Director, Knorr Bremse Technology centre India Pvt. Ltd.
Capsilon has been associated with C-DAC since past 13 years.
Capsilon looks to C-DAC as finishing school to sharpen the skills of an Engineer into successful Programmer bundled together.
The candidates have proven to have the right focus, attitude, hard-working with innovative ideas.
Candidates have a fresh mind to learn and try new things and mould their career as per Company’s need and requirements.
Capsilon has been regularly recruiting via C-DAC’s half yearly Placement Programs with an amazing and positive welcoming response from the Placement Department.
Wishing all the best to C-DAC in their future endeavor to argument market needs and produce best Software Engineers.
--- Mr. Rajesh Shah, Head- Corporate Services Group, Capsilon Software Pvt. Ltd.
C-DAC is a premium placement partner for Hoonar Tekwurks.
They have been providing unparalleled placement solutions to us over the past three years in the form of top fresh talent in the job market.
We treasure our association with CDAC and anticipate continued partnership.
--- Mr. Nishant Shukla, Senior Manager – HR & Talent Acquisition, Hoonar Tekwurks Consulting LLP
Region
Landline No.
E-Mail ID
Bengaluru
actsblr_placements [at] cdac [dot] in
Hyderabad
placements-hyd [at] cdac [dot] in
Mumbai
placements-mumbai [at] cdac [dot] in
Noida
placements-noida [at] cdac [dot] in
acts-placement [at] cdac [dot] in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Download Admission Booklet
Training Centre Login
C-CAT Candidate Login
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Friday, May 17, 2019
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
banner
New Arrow
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
