#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_ftp_mtech_it
M. Tech programme
AICTE Compliance Report  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 135 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
Fee structure:  (File Format: PDF, File Size: 439 KB , Date: 25/06/2021)
The Admission Brochures and other related details in this regard are available on the University website www.ipu.ac.in
THE LAST DATE OF MANDATORY ONLINE REGISTRATION IS 15TH JULY 2021
CDAC Noida offers two-year M. Tech programme in Computer Science & Engineering and Information Technology.
The Programmes are approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Delhi and affiliated with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), Delhi.
CDAC, Noida is running the M.Tech (CSE) & M.Tech. (IT) program since 2003.
The intake is 25 students per year.
The objective of the program is to produce postgraduates with advanced knowledge in one or more areas of Computer Science and Information Technology.
The programmes are designed such that a student can complete them based on advanced coursework alone.
However, the students are given the facility to concentrate on a problem by substituting some of the courses with equivalent project work.
Eminent IT professionals, seniors of various industries of relevance and other eminent persons are invited to the campus regularly for guest lectures before the institute fraternity.
Seminars on various relevant IT themes are also organized.
Curriculum delivery is affected through group and self learning seminars, conferences, case studies, live projects with industry, guest lectures and professionals from the industry.
The system of assessment is based on continuous evaluation through tests, surprise quizzes, home assignments, laboratory work, industry projects, presentations etc.
Admission Procedure
The students intake is preferred to be GATE qualified students.
The GATE qualified candidates in M. Tech program are likely to get scholarship through AICTE.
The number of seats available in CSE & IT is 25 each.
Eligibility Condition
(A) Minimum 60% or equivalent in the qualifying examination as under:-
B. Tech./BE in Computer Science/ Information Technology/ Electronics & Communication Engineering or equivalent degree with 60% marks.
MCA, M.Sc. (IT)/ Computer Science/Electronics with 60% marks.
(B) Admission Criteria for CET Code 139 & 140:
For normal seats in Regular programme: The merit list will be prepared on the basis of the qualified and valid GATE score.
If seats remain vacant after admitting students with qualified and valid GATE Score, then the admission for vacant seats shall be made on the basis of CET rank/merit for NON GATE Candidates, subject to securing of a minimum of 60% marks in qualifying degree.
The procedure for admission in this course is given below:
See the advertisement in the month of May/June on GGSIP University www.ipu.ac.in
Candidates have to apply online.,
Submit the online application form; please note that once you submit application form, you will not be able to change any details in the form once it is locked.
A written test CET is conducted during May-June for non-gate students and merit is prepared.
The merit list of gate as well as CET students has to be published on IPU website.
85% seats are reserved for Delhi residents.
Students have to participate in counseling.
The counseling schedule is uploaded on IPU website.
At the time of counseling the student has to pay the total course fee through DD.
The details are given in admission brochure.
After admission the student has to join the institute where he/she has taken the admission with admission receipt, 5 Passport size latest color photograph and original certificated and mark sheets for verification.
Financial Assistance/Scholarships
GATE qualified candidates will get AICTE scholarships, subject to the terms and condition provided by AICTE in term of attendance and other criteria.
From GATE qualified students, who are getting scholarship, teaching assistant can be asked to conduct labs, help an instructor in grading, and other course-related tasks as per AICTE norms.
Laboratory Facilities
The state of art laboratory equipped with latest systems and tools is available for the M. Tech.
Students on one system per student basis.
All the systems are connected through LAN and have internet access available.
Other than this lab setup, students have access to specialized labs such as NLP, Design lab etc.
Class rooms are equipped with Audio-visual equipment and computers for demonstration of concepts and conducting the classes.
Students have access to on-line library of IEEE journals from all the computers in the campus.
Library
The Library has a collection of over 21161 publications which include books, bound volumes of journals, thesis/dissertations, rare books, reports, government documents.
The Library has subscription of 74 periodicals/journals.
The books are issued to the students for the maximum for 15 days except reference book, Data books, Directories, Hand books, Reports, Standards.
The books, which are not available in the library, are procured on the request of members.
The reprographic facility is available for all members and students.
IEEE and ACM online access of Journals and Conference Proceedings are also available inside the institute.
More Details
Hostel
C-DAC, Noida has its own hostel inside the campus at B-30, Sector 62, Noida.
There are two separate but interconnected wings for boys and girls each having 50 twin sharing spacious rooms with air - conditioned dining hall and other modern amenities to ensure comfortable stay of the students.
Placement
CDAC provides a strong base for placement and industrial training requirement of the program.
The students are assigned the projects on full time basis as per course requirement, in their 4th semester.
Further the work culture of the organization provides a good environment to students to interact and get first hand information for working on live projects during their class room teaching too.
Companies / Institutes where students are placed:
TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Satyam, Accenture, CSC, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Infocomm, L & T Infotech, Patni, Cadence, Sapient Corporation, HCL Technologies, NIIT Technologies, Bharti Telesoft, Tech Mahindra, Honeywell, HCL InfoSystems, Birlasoft, Nagarro, RSystems, IFS Solutions, Nuclear software, Perot Systems TSI, Safenet Infotech, Sopra Group India, Xansa, Ericsson, Intel, CMC, ST Micro Electronics etc. with the highest Annual package of Rs. 6.2 lacs per annum.
M.Tech (CSE & IT) Course Scheme
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 87.4 KB, Date: 29/8/2014)
Faculty Details
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 297 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
For Further Details Please Contact:
BDPM Group
Academic Block , B-30, Institution Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-2210800 Ext-92
email: kritisaroha [at] cdac [dot] in
header
bullet
download
