#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_ftp_MTech_PGRMS_TVM
MTech programmes (C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram)
ER&DCI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, CDAC THIRUVANATHAPURAM
ABOUT US
ER&DCI Institute of Technology is the academic wing of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC) Thiruvananthapuram.
ER&DCI Institute of Technology was started in 2001 with a mission to groom and nurture competitive professionals, empowering them with state-of-the-art skill sets in Electronics and Information Technology.
The campus is situated in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram city.
The College is affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, Kerala (KTU) and approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).
ER&DCI Institute of Technology conducts only postgraduate degree programmes in engineering technology.
The students of this institute get a chance to do their academic projects as part of the live projects in CDAC Thiruvananthapuram and internship upto two years with stipend is offered to eligible students after the course.
The institute also provides placement support to the final year students and It is a matter of great pride that above 90% of our eligible students have been placed with top notch MNCs with the highest Annual package of Rs. 6.2 lakhs per annum.
FACILITIES
ER&DCI Institute of Technology has a well organized team of qualified faculty members with a track record of achievements.
Besides, talks by experts from industry enhance the students' knowledge and practical skills.
Our facilities include air conditioned class rooms, well-equipped laboratories with full-time high-speed Internet connectivity and a technical library that is well stocked.
Post Graduate Programmes Offered at ER&DCI Institute of Technology
DEPARTMENT
STREAM
Eligibility
Number of Seats
Electronics & Communication Engineering
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Degree in Electronics & Communication / Applied Electronics / Applied Electronics & Instrumentation / Electronics & Instrumentation / Electronics & Bio Medical / Electronics Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Cyber Forensic & Information Security
Degree in Computer Science & Engineering / Information Technology / Electronics & Communication / Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
The Department of Electronics was established in the year 2006.
The focus of the department is to produce post graduates with strong fundamentals in electronics and communication domain and experience in the latest happenings of the industry, so that they can meet the upcoming challenges in the field.
The M.Tech programme mainly focuses on the ASIC/FPGA front end design and verification, physical design and verification, embedded OS and RTOS, embedded system design and development, analog and digital circuit design etc. As part of this course the students also get the opportunity to work with the latest electronic design automation tools which are in use in the industry.
The course offers a range of topics of immediate relevance to industry and makes the students exactly suitable for industries engaged in Embedded System development.
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering was established in the year 2012 with the objective is to impart quality education in the field of Computer Science.
ER&DCI Institute of Technology is one of the very few institutes in the country to initiate industry specific programmes in Cyber Forensics and Information Security to cater to the growing need of trained professionals in the nascent field of cyber security.
The M.Tech programme offered focuses on Cyber Forensics, Information Security, Virtual Forensics, Ethical Hacking, File System Forensics, Windows and Linux Forensics, Network Security, Operating Systems Security and Image and Video Forensics .
Placement
ER&DCI Institute of Technology provides a strong base for placement and industrial training requirements of the students.
There is a dedicated placement cell working in the institute with the objective to provide employment opportunities and world class training to students in leading organizations.
The placement cell also organizes placement training programs and motivational talks and make the students well prepared for the placement process.
The selected students of ER&DCI-IT are assigned projects on full time basis in various sections of CDAC in their final year.
Hence the work culture of the organization provides a good environment to students to interact and get first hand information for working on live projects during their study.
Students of the institute are placed in highly acclaimed companies including CDAC, TataElxsi, Wipro, Infosys, Deloitte, IBS, TCS, E&Y, SaintGobain, GMR Group, VVDN Technologies, TOSSILS and government organisations like NIC, Airport authority of India, VSSC, Railways and as Security Specialist Officers in Nationalised Banks such as SBI, Canara Bank etc with the highest Annual package of Rs. 6.2 lacs per annum..
Scholarships
GATE qualified candidates will get AICTE scholarships, subject to the terms and condition provided by AICTE in term of attendance and other criteria.
Students belonging to SC / ST / OEC category from Kerala are eligible for stipend and fee reduction from Scheduled Caste Development Department (SCDD) as per rules of Govt of Kerala.
Admission Procedure
For details on admission procedure please visit our website www.erdciit.ac.in
Contact Details
CDAC Campus
Vellayambalam
India, PIN - 695033
Phone: +91 8547897106,0471 2723333-Ext No: 250, 324
Email:erdciit@cdac.in
Website:http://erdciit.ac.in
header
