#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=ev_hpc_gripsi_index
GRIPSI-2007
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Events
Four Days Technology Training & Workshop
Grid Programming Some Idications and challenge Where are we Heading
(GRIPSI-2007)
Venue:
C-DAC, JNTU Campus, Hyderbad
Date:
November 19-22, 2007
Jointly Organized by:
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, University of Pune, Pune &
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, JNTU Campus, Hyderabad
C-DAC's FIRST Technology Training Programme & Workshop
Flyer
Poster
Tech. Prog.
Overview
Feedback
The objective of the technoogy training prorgamme & workshop was to develop outstanding IT professionals who are in touch with the latest Grid Computing technology areas, and are equipped with excellent problem skills by collaborating with the various institutions in India to solve applications using Grid Computing technology.
To achieve objectives, the focus on one of the core areas like  Programming on geographically distributed parallel processing systems using Grid Computing Technology based on Globus tool-kit  has been identified.
Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Pune, and Hyderabad jointly organized the  four  days technology training programme on “  Grid computing - Progrmaming - applications (GRIPSI – 2007) ” during the period November 19-22, 2007, at C-DAC Hyderabad.
A four day programme featuring grid programming aspects and some indications where are we heading is being organized as a part of technology training programme.
It is designed to enable participants to quickly understand Globus Toolkit APIs (GT-2.4/4.0) and write programs for Grid computing using different programming languages and address Scientific and Business computing Applications.
The Hands-on will be conducted at Grid Laboratory at the venue.
A special session on GARUDA- National Grid Computing initiative will be covered.
Topics of interest are given below :
Grid Abstraction and Providers /Globus Toolkit 4.0 OGSA /GARUDA
Distributed Grid Information and Data Management Services
Globus Toolkit APIs & Application Workflows
Grid Programming ; Java CoG Kit
Grid Programming : Perl CoG Kit /Python Cog Kit
OOP's Concept Classes Wrap-Around Globus C APIs
Grid Performance Prediction Analysis - Grid Probes
Service Oriented Architectures, Services Oriented Applications and Infrastrcuutre
Grid Services and Web Services
Most of the articles of this Technical Training Prorgamme include broad coverage of practical aspects of Grid Computing and have been selected from several important research Articles, books and other previous workshops.
The Lectures and Hands-on together with web site is designed to be used by the practicing professional or a text for a undergraduate or graduate level course in Grid Computing.
Some topics can be covered in greater depth and a project may be assigned based on  Enabling Applications for Grid Computing using Globus Toolkit .
The Betatesting Group, National PARAM Supercomputing Facility (NPSF),  C-DAC  initiated the first technoogy training prorgamme & workshop programme for C-DAC members and close collaborators.
The Betatesting Group seeks to enhance the knowledge quotient of members through training on technically advanced concepts and techniques related to Parallel Processing, and Grid Computing, and other emerging areas of Information Technology.
The Betatesting Group, C-DAC, Pune in collaboration with other members of C-DAC, and external experts will provide inputs on HPC technology trends, deliver technical lectures that will focus on macro view of the current technology trends, skill set requirements and hands-on.
The Betatesting Group, C-DAC, Pune are being involved in test, certify, and performance of Application and System Benchmarks of PARAM Series.
Also, the group initiated technology workshops on performance aspects of programming on emerging Parallel Processing & Grid Computing platforms.
The group conducted technology workshops on Grid computing (C-DAc, Pune & Bengalore 2004, Anna University-2005, GRIPSI-2007) in collaboration with leading academic institutions and premier research and development organizations.
For more information, Contact Email: betatest@cdac.in  Workshop Co-ordinator :  vcvrao@cdac.in
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Office Contact Information
Career Opportunities
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
