#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=international
International Projects
ACTS Menu
Courses
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
PG Degree Programmes
Sponsored Courses
Admissions
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Student
Student's Login
Sneak Peek
Placement
Our Recruiters
Placement FAQ
Training Centres
Contact Us
ACTS Home
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma Courses
Certificate Courses
PG-DAC : PG-Diploma in Advanced Computing
PG-DIoT : PG-Diploma in Internet of Things
PG-DMC : PG-Diploma in Mobile Computing
PG-DHPCSA : PG-Diploma in HPC System Administration
PG-DESD : PG-Diploma in Embedded Systems Design
PG-DSSD : PG-Diploma in System Software Development
PG-DITISS : PG-Diploma in IT Infrastructure, Systems and Security
PG-DGi : PG-Diploma In Geoinformatics
PG-DBDA : PG-Diploma in Big Data Analytics
PG-DBIHI : PG-Diploma in Biomedical Instrumentation & HI
PG-DVLSI : PG-Diploma in VLSI Design
DASDM: Diploma in Advanced Software Development Methodologies
DACA : Diploma In Advanced Computer Arts
DASDM SARTHI Course
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
PG Diploma Courses
Online Diploma Courses
ME/M.Tech Programmes
Diploma/Certificate Courses
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For Minority Candidates
Bihar Certificate/PG-Diploma Courses For SC, ST and OBC category Candidates
How to Register
C-CAT Exam
Counselling Process
Schedule
Registration
Admission Booklet
Testimonials
About Placement
Placement FAQs
Alumni Speaks
International Presence of C-DAC
India is always willing to share its knowledge, experience and expertise in the field of ICT with other countries of the world, specially the countries of the developing world.
In this backdrop, C-DAC with MEA & MeitY is working towards collaborations/ co-operations with various countries to promote the product and technologies available across centre to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the global IT industry.
Till today 40 projects have been implemented successfully and 25 projects are ongoing in 42 countries in Africa, East Europe, South-East Asia, Central Asia, Middle East, Arab, Latin America, Caribbean, Pacific Island & South America.
Large bi-lateral projects in Ghana, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Myanmar, Tanzania, Belarus, Armenia, Lesotho, Seychelles, Syria, Grenada, Dominican Republic, Vietnam, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Cambodia, Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia, Ecuador, Peru, Palestine, Bhutan, Costa Rica, Panama, Commonwealth of Dominica, Egypt, Morocco, Guyana, Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu, Fiji, Nauru, Niue, Samoa, Cook Islands, Namibia, Sao Tome & Principe and Jordan.
These projects have promoted brand India and positioned C-DAC’s indigenously developed products & technologies across thematic areas.
Most of the projects implemented by C-DAC have received excellent recognition & have been inaugurated by Hon’ble President, Hon’ble Prime Minister & Hon’ble Union Ministers both from India & other countries.
These projects have gradually conquered various parts of social life and economic processes.
These projects have enforced the business world to substitute and modify conventional capital and labour.
The projects have enhanced ICT investment and application substantially in both developed and developing countries.
The multidimensional capabilities facilitate extensive innovations in products and processes, and thus lead to a more productive exploitation of capital and labour.
Moreover, the impact is even more far-reaching through spillovers induced by human networking, and has been much increased by the knowledge sharing.
C-DAC is forging further ties with Kyrgyzstan, Tanzania, Mongolia, Ghana, Peru, Uzbekistan, Tunisia, Cambodia, Belarus, Argentina, Uruguay, Palestine, CLMV, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, ASEAN, CELAC, Syria and Solomon Islands.
Projects Ongoing
India – Egypt Centre of Excellence in IT
Centre of Excellence in IT at Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Setting up of Centre of Excellence in IT at Vanuatu
Advanced Computing Training School (ACTS)
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
4th floor, Innovation Park,
Sr. No. 34/B/1, Panchvati,
Pashan,
Pune, Maharashtra - 411008
Phone No. : 020-2550 3134 / 136 /107
(All support contact numbers given above are available between 10 am - 1 pm and 2 pm - 5 pm on working days)
Email: actssupport@cdac.in
header
banner
New Arrow
