#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=hi_hs_medinfo_dicom_more
DICOM SDK More
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Health Informatics
Healthcare Standards
Overview
Learn
License
Documents
SDK for DICOM
Usage Scenario
Complete set of supported IODs and DIMSE Services
Toolkit provides comprehensive implementation of all standard-defined IODs with supported transfer syntaxes.
It also has complete support for all Composite and Normalized services defined in the standard.
This enables developers to build DICOM-defined SCU/ SCP components for any required set of IODs for required set of transfer syntaxes.
The toolkit is provided as pre-built set of SKUs of combination of DIMSE Services and IODs.
Rapid Application Development Tool
Object oriented approach of the toolkit allows developers to build applications in short time.
The toolkit provides default implementations for almost all the functionalities defined by the standard.
This enables rapid development of applications through default mechanisms.
High ROI
Cost-effective implementation of the toolkit allows developers to invest less and achieve more benefits from the toolkit.
The kit is customizable at the package level by which developer can opt for specific set of services and specific set of IODs e.g. developer can choose to get CSTORE service for radiography related IODs.
Initial investment for the toolkit remains low as flexible licensing mechanisms are available.
Data Exchange Scenario
Dual View Approach
Dual View approach of the toolkit is designed taking into consideration the needs of end-user developers.
The developers comfortable with programming in DICOM world may choose to deal with datasets only during handling of DICOM data.
Some developers who are comfortable with object oriented programming may choose to deal with Data Model only during handling of DICOM data.
This enables developers having minimal required knowledge of DICOM standard to easily build applications.
Highly configurable and extensible
Since the toolkit helps building applications and is itself not an application, it is designed to be highly configurable and extensible.
It can be configured for data validation levels, logging mechanism, usage of temporary storage for memory and processing efficiency, internationalization support.
DICOM defined data dictionary which can be customized by developer for private data elements.
Extensible design of the toolkit allows developers to plug-in custom-built implementation classes for extending default functionalities provided by the toolkit.
Debugging, Validation and logging support
Considering variations in the implementations of the standard by other applications/ devices in the DICOM world, toolkit provides support to perform validations as per the needs of the developers.
Validations can be done at multiple levels with strict level in which violations are considered as errors.
Logging support is customizable and it supports different levels during logging enabling developers to debug applications and view data generated during protocol violation.
Memory and speed efficient
As large amount of data flows across the DICOM network, the communication needs to be memory and process efficient.
The toolkit takes care of memory while handling large amount of data.
Developer can choose to configure the kit according to his/ her needs.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Hospital Information Systems
Drug Management System
Telemedicine Solutions
Decision Support Systems
Mobile Healthcare Solutions
EHR/EMR Systems
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, December 15, 2020
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
