#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=lu_safedrive-eoi-tot
Transfer of Technology - SAFEDRIVE
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
Latest Updates
Click here to Download Safedrive Brochure
Transfer of Technology "Vehicular Communication System for On Road Vehicles using Dedicated Short Range Communication (DSRC)"
1. Introduction
(i).
Brief about C-DAC
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) is a premier R&D organization of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) mandated to carry out R&D in Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics (ICT&E) and associated areas.
Although C-DAC was established with a clear mandate of R&D in high performance computing in 1988, over the last three decades, it has diversified into several other areas of ICT to respond to the needs of the society.
With the zeal to convert its R&D outcomes into usable technologies, it is today a significant IT player with many innovative products and solutions.
In addition, C-DAC has played a key role in IT education to fulfill the higher ICT education requirements of the country’s IT industry.
Brief description about the product/technology/prototype to be transferred
An indigenous Dedicated Short Range Communication (DSRC) System for vehicles comprising of On Board Unit and Road Side Unit with DSRC Software Stack The system would enable two-way communication that can contribute to safer driving and also provide various applications that use the secure Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) communications and Vehicle to roadside Infrastructure (V2I) communications.
The system comprises of
DSRC based On board Unit (OBU) with WAVE stack
DSRC based Road Side Unit (RSU) with WAVE stack
SDK for application development
System Specifications
ON BOARD UNIT (OBU)
Dual DSRC Radio
Range up to 400 meters (LoS)
Integrated with Bluetooth and GPS
USB interface for external devices
Audio/Display alerts for drivers
CAN Interface
7’’ touch screen display (optional)
Vehicle Battery powered
Internal Battery backup
Supports WAVE standard
Multi-channel synchronization
Supports switching between control and service channels
ROAD SIDE UNIT (RSU)
Ethernet with POE
Wi-Fi interface
4G LTE Backbone connectivity
Ingress protection : IP65
Pole / Wall mounting
Power source : 12V DC / Solar
External sensor interface : Fog/Rainfal
IEEE 802.11p compliant MAC
IEEE 1609.4 compliant Multichannel operation
IEEE 1609.3 compliant Network services (WAVE Short Message Protocol)
IEEE 1609.2 compliant Wireless Security
SAEJ2735 Message Set
Current status of product/ technology/prototype
Development of the product is complete and field trial activity of the products are in progress.
List of deliverables as part of the Technology transfer
Preliminary ToT document containing
System Description
User Manual
Detailed ToT document containing
Detailed design documents, schematic, BOM, Gerber files and Assembly
Test plan and procedure
Installation manual
Software Stack and related documents
Yocto based BSP
2.Scope of work & Facilities
C-DAC intends to provide its "1) DSRC based On Board Unit (OBU) with WAVE Stack 2) DSRC based Road Side Unit (RSU) with WAVE Stack 3) SDK for Application Development" which includes
Sourcing, fabrication, assembly and testing
Source code and binaries of software
Installation and User Manuals
Training to the engineers of the ToT partner during different stages of the transfer of technology
to interested companies/vendors with good experience in development & deployment of embedded systems.
C-DAC, as a part of its R&D initiative and responsibility of supporting the Electronics industry is eager to proliferate this product in the market in collaboration with suitable industry partners.
C-DAC shall also impart training to the successful bidders.
Facilities available at C-DAC for fabrication/programming/ packaging: Only for in-house development and testing.
Cannot be hired by external agency.
3. Extent of Work (purpose)
The Expression of Interest (EOI) is for participation of competent industrial partners for commercialization of the above listed DSRC Hardware with software stack products through transfer of technology.
The technology will be transferred on a non-exclusive basis.
The technology fee will be finalized at a later stage.
4. Documentation
C DAC will provide its documentation for all sub-systems as per scope of work.
The identified industry is expected to prepare detailed documents of fabrication, development & testing of various sub-systems in consultation with C DAC, however the final documentation is entirely the responsibility of bidder.
5.Expression of Interest
C-DAC invites "Express of Interest in the format given in Annexure-I (Part A & Part B) (which may require customization based on the technology/product/ service/ prototype being transferred).
The industries will be shortlisted based on the information furnished in Annexure-I and assessment by the ToT committee.
The submission of the EOR shall include all such documents that are specified herein to prove the authenticity of their offer and any claim made therein.
The burden of proving such claims shall lie with the bidder.
All cost and expenses associated with submission of EOI shall be borne by the bidder while submitting the EOI and C-DAC shall have no liability, in any manner in this regard, or if it decides to terminate the process of short listing for any reason whatsoever.
6. Who can Apply
Industries with good experience in development & deployment of embedded system products can approach C-DAC Hyderabad for the technology.
Professionally managed Companies and Corporates are also welcome to apply for the technology.
A Committee of experts will assess the capabilities and strengths of the industry before finalizing the technology partners
7. How to Apply?
Interested companies may send expression of interest with their details by filling the details along with supporting documents to:
Contact Person for queries
General
The industry willing to take technology for commercial exploitation will be required to enter into a TOT agreement with C-DAC Hyderabad as per the terms and conditions approved by the competent authority prescribed format given below.
8. Invitation for Expression of Interest
Instructions to the Bidders
EOI for Technology Transfer Format
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Corporate Profile
Our Vision
Success Stories
Awards & Accolades
Citizen/Client Charter
HR Policies
Quality Policy
Annual Report
Audio-Visual Gallery
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Monday, March 23, 2020
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
