#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=pk_itn_spot860
C-DAC: Experimenting online, with acids & alkalis
Reach Us
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
C-DAC Centres
Bengaluru
Chennai
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kolkata
Mohali
Mumbai
Noida
Patna
Pune
Silchar
Thiruvananthapuram
Sitemap
Blog
Choose Language
Assamese
Bangla
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Kannada
Konkani
Kashmiri
Kashmiri-Keshur
Maithili
Malayalam
Manipuri
Manipuri (N)
Marathi
Nepali
Oriya
Punjabi
Santali
Santali (N)
Sanskrit
Sindhi
Sindhi (N)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Translation powered by GoTranslate
Regional Language Policy
A-
A+
Toggle navigation
Home
About C-DAC (current)
Products & Services
Research & Development
Press Kit
Downloads
Careers
Tenders
Contact Us
Search
In the News
Experimenting online, with acids & alkalis
The Hindu
February 26, 2013
Students of CBSE schools will soon be able to verify Newton’s third law of motion not just in their physics labs, but online too.
Even with the upcoming board examinations on their minds, several CBSE schools in the city are positive about the board’s initiative to give schools the additional option of using virtual labs to teach science subjects.
In a recent circular to schools, CBSE chairman Vineet Joshi recommended the use of Online Labs for School Experiments (OLabs) to all schools affiliated to the Board, and informed them that it will be available free of cost.
According to the circular, the virtual experiments developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Mumbai and Amrita University Kerala, aims to give students the experience of doing real lab work by recreating a laboratory and its equipment, using visual simulators.
The software, which is aligned to the CBSE class IX and X curriculum, will also help teachers assess a student’s observations, procedural skills, and track student usage through interactive activities, videos and animation.
However the online labs will only supplement and not replace practical science laboratories in schools, say principals.
P. Vijayalakshmi, principal, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Virugambakkam, says that her school has already registered to get access to the facility.
“This will help as a reinforcement tool for students, and will give them another chance to understand experiments, ” she said, adding that her teachers were now familiarising themselves with the usage of the facility.
“We are thinking about using it as a revision tool for class IX students in the current academic year, ” she said, adding that with many schools equipped with smart classrooms, teachers can simultaneously teach and demonstrate experiments in the classroom.
Suma Padmanabhan, principal, Asan Memorial Senior Secondary School said that though this would not replace a conventional laboratory, with students getting increasingly tech-savvy, e-learning was the way forward.
“We are going into it with an open mind.
And, this will also help teachers track the progress of students, ” she said.
Some CBSE schools said that since they were preoccupied with the final examinations, they would fully explore the facility and the feasibility of its usage once the exams were over.
The circular added that this facility would help students whose schools have either insufficient time or instruments in laboratories.
The facility, which is available only in English now, will soon be available in other regional languages as well, the circular added.
High Performance Computing,
Grid & Cloud Computing
Multilingual Computing & Heritage Computing
Professional Electronics,
VLSI & Embedded Systems
Software Technologies including FOSS
Cyber Security & Cyber Forensics
Health Informatics
Education & Training
Related Links
Press Release
News Archives
Year - 2012
Year - 2011
Website Policies
Copyright Policy
Terms & Conditions
Help
© 2021
C-DAC.
All rights reserved
Last Updated: Tuesday, March 03, 2015
Website owned & maintained by: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC)
Top
C-DAC LOGO
Manipuri(N)
Santali(N)
Sindhi(N)
dbg
lbg
India.gov
BHIM
Swachh Bharat
MEITY
Digital India
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav
Koo
Facebook
linkedin
twitter
