#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot917
First C–DAC centre in NE opens up at NIT, Silchar
First C–DAC centre in NE opens up at NIT, Silchar
The Sentinel
February 22, 2014
The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C–DAC), the premier institute which is credited for giving India its first indigenously built super computer, has set up its first centre in the North–East at Silchar NIT.
N Satyanarayan, secretary to the Department of Electronics and IT (Deity) formally inaugurated the centre at a function held at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Auditorium, NIT campus in Silchar, on Friday.
Prof Rajat Moona, Director General, C–DAC and Dr Pradip Kumar Sinha, Senior Director, C–DAC, were also present at the inauguration.
While speaking at the function, Satyanarayan said that the centre will help the younger generation to pursue different computer courses and at the same time it will make the North–East of India “an innovation heartland”.
“We need to work collectively to try and reach out to every part of the country like the North–East with the power of IT” he added.
Pradip Kumar Sinha pointed out that the centre will begin its operations from within the NIT campus at Silchar.
He added to say that the centre will cater to the indigenous technology requirements of the region besides deploying some of the other already proven technologies developed by the centre.
Prof Nishikant Deshpande, Director of NIT, Silchar, said this will give a new boost to the North–East Region as far its technology and development is concerned.
He is also optimistic that the opening of the centre will usher in a new economic framework that augurs well for the welfare of the people of this region.
C–DAC, a scientific, research and development arm of the Ministry of Communications and IT, Government of India is also credited for initiating a slew of programmes in many States including West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh for the betterment of the common man in various technology domains like software technology, e–governance, health informatics, cyber security and multi–lingual computing among others.
header
