#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_et_dsda
Diploma in Systems & Database Administration
Registration Open
Download Brochure  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 249 KB, Date: 23/12/2015)
Download Registration Form (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 115 KB, Date: 23/12/2015)
Course Objective
In this global world nothing can be thought without computers and for connecting them we need large and dedicated network based on different Operating System.
Diploma in Systems & Database Administration (DSDA) programme is a six months (24 weeks) programme designed to fulfill the requirement of skilled manpower in the field of Networking, Database Administration and related technologies especially for installation, configuration & administration of different OS & Servers.
Course Highlights
24 weeks full-time Course
Evaluation at the module level followed by an exam at the end of each term
Intake - 40 seats (maximum)
Curriculum designed in consultation with industry experts and leading Academicians
Well-equipped laboratory
Well-equipped library with access to International Journals
Extensive hands on sessions
Limited Internet access
Exposure to soft skills
Placement assistance
ISO Certified training process
Resourceful Faculty
Quality Course Material
Access to state-of-the-art computing facilities
Eligibility
BE(CS, IT, E&C, Electronics, Electrical, Electronics & Instrumentation, Electrical & Electronics)/ B.Tech (CS, IT, E&C, Electronics, Electrical, Electronics &Instrumentation, Electrical & Electronics) / AMIE/ MCA/ M.Sc (CS, IT, Electronics, E&C) / B.Sc (Engg.)
Candidates should have minimum 60% in last qualifying degree.
Also Candidates should not have less than 60% in more than one of the academic qualifications.
Candidates who have less than 50% in any of the academic qualifications are Not Eligible.
Students appearing for the final semester examination are also eligible.
Since result awaited candidates of eligible qualification may also apply for the programme, they have to submit the completion certificate on or before 30th April 2016.
Failure of same would lead to their cancellation of admission.
Further they would also not be entitled for any refund.
Selection Process & Declaration of Merit List
The Registration forms are available at www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_et_dsda.
Merit List will be prepared on the basis of marks entered Registration Form.
The list of shortlisted candidates will be declared on 16 February 2016 and will be available at http://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_et_dsda.
Merit List for the admission to the programme would be prepared as per the methodology given below
All the candidates having 60% throughout would be given the first preference.
Amongst them the merit would be prepared as per their percentages in the order of last qualifying degree i.e. PG (if applicable), Graduation, 12th and 10th.
Then out of the remaining candidates, candidates having 60% or more in last qualifying degree and have secured 50% or above in any one of the remaining qualifications would be preferred.
Amongst these candidates, merit would be prepared as per their percentages in the order of last qualifying degree i.e. PG (if applicable), Graduation, 12th and 10th.
Candidates not having 60% in last qualifying degree or having less than 60% in more than one academic qualification or having secured less than 50% in any of the academic qualifications would be rejected.
All the candidates in merit list would then report at the centre on 19th February 2016 at 10:00 AM for counseling in person along with the original documents (for verification purpose), a set of self attested photocopies of the same and Demand Draft of the complete fee of Rs.65,000 + 14.5%Service Tax=Rs74,425 inclusive of service tax in favor of CDAC, Noida payable at Noida.
Documents required would be 10th Date of birth certificate, 10th marksheet, 12th marksheet and Qualifying degree (as per eligibility criteria) marksheet.
In case qualifying degree is PG then Graduation final year marksheet containing the aggregate marks of all the years would also be required.
In case the candidate has appeared for final semester examination and is result awaited, then that candidate would be required to bring all the previous semester marksheets.
On reaching the venue, the candidates must mark the Attendance.
Allotment of seats to the candidates will be made only when he/she attends the counseling session in person.
On counseling day, the candidates will be called in order of merit and shall have to produce the required documents for verification.
Depending upon the merit, the seats will be offered to the candidates as per availability at that point of time.
A candidate who fails to appear in person on the notified venue, date and time for counseling, shall forfeit his/her claim for the seat which could be offered to him/her.
However if a candidate reports late on the specified date and time or reports within five working days of commencement of course, he/she may be considered for allotment of a seat subject to availability of seat at that point of time and satisfying all the required criteria.
A candidate who is allotted a seat will be required to pay full fee immediately on the spot at the time of counseling.
If a candidate fails to pay the fee, the offer will be withdrawn on the spot and the seat will be allotted to the next candidate in the merit list.
Part payment or payment through cheque will not be accepted.
Payment is to be done through Demand Draft in favor of CDAC, Noida payable at Noida.
Fee amount is Rs. 74,425/- inclusive of service tax (14.5%).
Course fee is 'NON-TRANSFERRABLE'.
The course fees paid by the candidate shall be refunded as per the below mentioned rules :
If a student wants to withdraw from a course within 30 days of the date of commencement of the course (22nd February'16), then 50% of the course fee will be refunded.
Such withdrawal letters should be submitted on or before 5 pm on 22nd March 2016.
If a student wants to withdraw from a course after 30 days of the date of commencement of the course, then there will not be any refund of fees.
Evaluation Methodology
The evaluation methodology consists of continuous evaluation by means of class tests, module end exams, seminars and lab assignment evaluations.
There would be a class test, one module exam at the end of each module and project evaluation.
The evaluation of the students is based on the following distribution of the marks:
Sr. No.
Categorization of Marks Assessment
Written test (MCQ core modules)
Lab Evaluation (core modules)
Written test (MCQ specialization modules)
Lab Evaluation (specialization modules)
Project Evaluation*
* Wherein the Project is evaluated only once with the last module and a separate Project Certificate is also awarded.
Instructions
The student should have total of 75% attendance in classes in order to be eligible for Participation Certificate of the course.
In case attendance falls below 75% a student may still be awarded Participation Certificate on the basis of genuine grounds and their approval from Executive Director.
The grade criteria for each module is as follows:
75% - Above A+ Excellent
60% - 74% A Very Good
50% - 59% B Good
40% - 49% C Fair
Below 40% D Unsatisfactory
As per the Quality Procedures of CDAC, Noida (ISO), the candidates who would be absent/failed in the module end exams will be given one more chance to re-appear in the exam at the end of the program with the permission of Head of School.
Every eligible candidate would be awarded Participation Certificate and Performance Statement (which would include Grade Sheet and Project Certificate).
Students have to do ONE project which is the part of the DSDA course at the end of the specialization module.
The project work is thoroughly evaluated.
The project work is allotted 50 marks *, the categorization of which is as follows:
Project Presentation : 20
Viva : 20
Documentation : 10
Total : 50
* The project is one part of the total marks assessment which is also mentioned in Evaluation Methodology Section.
Placement Assistance
The objective of the Placement Cell is to provide PLACEMENT ASSISTANCE to all the students registered with C-DAC, Noida for Career Courses for duration of 6 months and above subject to certain criteria.
Partial List of our recruiters:
NIIT Technologies
HCL Technologies
Tech Mahindra
Dell Perot Systems
Aricent
Net4
Apyl
Estel Telecom
Safenet Infotech
CSC
CyberQ
Kaplan
Yamaha Motor Solutions
HCL INFOSYSTEMS
C-DAC, NOIDA
Placement Schedule (Tentative)
COURSE
SESSION
PERIOD FOR PLACEMENT
(DURATION 24 WEEKS)
February-August
July-August
August - February
January-February
For details on Placement Activity, please refer to Guidelines
Course Contents
OPERATING SYSTEM CONCEPTS: : Introduction, Process Management, Operating System Structure, I/O Systems, Storage Management, Protection and Security
HARDWARE PERIPHERALS:: Introduction, Microprocessor, RAM, BIOS Bus, Motherboard, CD ROM, Networking, SCSI, Sound, Video, Assembling, Maintaining, Optimizing & Troubleshooting PC Network Administration through CISCO:
Network Fundamentals: CCNA Exploration 1
Routing Protocols and Concepts: CCNA Exploration 2
LAN Switching and Wireless: CCNA Exploration 3
Accessing the WAN: CCNA Exploration 4
IT Security: : Introduction, Physical Security, Cryptography, Authentication Database Technology: Concepts & SQL
WINDOWS 2012 SERVER Administration (Basic & Advanced)
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6
Red Hat Linux System Administration I -(SA-1): RH-124
Red Hat Linux System Administration II -(SA-2): RH-134
Red Hat Linux System Administration III -(SA-3): RH-254
APTITUDE SKILLS & PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT WORK (4 Weeks)
Submission of Application
Registration for the course can be done by filling the Registration Form available at  http://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=edu_et_dsda.
The duly filled printout of the registration form along with the Demand Draft/Filled Challan form (available at Reception, Academic Block, CDAC, Noida, B-30 Sector 62, Noida) of Rs. 573 drawn in favour of CDAC, Noida payable at Noida should be submitted in person or sent by post at Academic Block, B-30 Sector 62, Noida, 201307, Uttar Pradesh so as to reach CDAC, Noida on or before 14th February 2016.
It is advised to fill up the Registration Form carefully.
Registration Fee is Rs. 573 (Rs 500 + 14.5%ST).
The DD date should not be later than 14th February 2016.
Course Commencement
In a year, twice as under :
August-February
Counselling Venue
CDAC, B-30, Sector - 62, Noida, 201307, Uttar Pradesh
For Further Details Please Contact:
Academics Group
Academic Block , B-30, Institution Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120- 3063398
email: dsda-noida [at] cdac [dot] in
header
bullet
