#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=mlc_gist_ismv6off
ISM V6 Intelligent Script Manager
Your gateway to Indian Language computing…
FAQ
Contact Us
Since 1991, the ISM range of software, from C-DAC GIST has been providing the state of the art Indian language edge to existing as well as custom designed applications software.
ISM has evolved over the years to remain abreast with the incessantly varying user requirements.
Now we present Unicode Compliant ISM which has Open Type fonts support.
The all new ISM, version 6, is even more powerful and versatile than ever before.
Word processing, database applications, web based applications, publishing or even custom built software - nothing is beyond its preview.
Comprising ISM Office, ISM Publisher and ISM Soft the ISM family meets precise needs of diverse user groups.
Supporting 19 Indian languages besides English, the ISM range has a colossal collection of designs, clip arts and is packed with a multitude of user friendly features.
All crafted to take you impeccably to the subsequently echelon of Indian language computing at a click.
Your gateway to Indian Language Computing
Content Creation
Supports 19 Indian languages - Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Marathi, Malayalam, Oriya, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, Manipuri, Nepali, Konkani, Bodo, Santhali, Maithili, Dogri in addition to Roman English
Provides the Indian language edge to existing application softwares as well as custom designed applications
Support from Win 98 to Windows 8.1 for desktops and up to Win 2008 for Network Server for 32/64 bit
ISM V6 is not tested to work on Windows 10 and latest applications like Microsoft Office 2013 and above versions.
So before purchasing ISM V6 for Windows 10 and Office 2013 please contact info.gist@cdac.in .
Intelligent Inputting Methodology
Macros for Open Office, Libreoffice and MS-Word like find-replace, keyboard shortcut, converter, spellchecker, synonym dictionary, official language dictionary, mail merge now also available in UNICODE
UNICODE sorting of data in Excel, Calc through macros
Enhanced spellcheckers in Hindi, Gujarati, Bengali &Malayalam
Features like insert date & time facility, number to word
Easy phonetic keyboard
Apart from BIS Enhanced INSCRIPT keyboard support for popular keyboard layouts like typewriter as well as custom designed layouts
On screen keyboards to expedite content creation and facilitate learning
The rupee sign is integrated on Enhanced Inscript keyboard.
It is available on third layer.
It can be typed using ALTGR+4.
Data Versatility
Documents which are created using ISM V6 are globally usable
Convert data from various font encoding to Unicode
nTrans is able to convert data (proper nouns) from English to Indian Language Unicode and vice versa
Publishing Facilities
Range of aesthetic assortment of True Type fonts, symbols, borders and cliparts
Publish content on the web using applications like MS Front Page, Flash, Dreamweaver, etc
Supports popular publishing software such as CorelDraw, PhotoShop, Adobe Illustrator, etc
Application Areas
Supports office automation software such as Open Office, LibreOffice, MS Office, etc
Develop software applications using existing UNICODE compliant development platforms like .Net, etc
Indian languages in mailing through ISM-Mail; chatting and messaging applications like Outlook Express, Yahoo Messenger, G-Talk, MSN Messenger, etc
Versions Available
ISM Office, ISM Soft, ISM Publisher, ISM Office Network, ISM Soft Network
Comparison between different ISM flavours
For more details, please contact:
More information on GIST products
E-Mail:
info [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
Sales related information
sales [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
Support related information
support [dot] gist [at] cdac [dot] in
header
