#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=pk_itn_spot968
A handbook to log out e-crime
The Times of India
July 07, 2015
With more than half of the cases registered with Bidhannager Police's cyber crime cell relating to bank fraud, this crime has become a major cause for concern to cops.
Cases like phishing and identity impers-onation constitute another sizeable chunk.
Bidhannagar City Police, in association with Airtel and CDAC, launched a bilingual booklet on cyber security on Monday.
"Right now we are aiming at dealing with basic types of cyber threats.
We have plans to update the book from time to time by assimilating new forms of crime.
We also have plans to make school and college students aware of the possible threats.
We have printed 2,000 copies and will print more if necessary, " Javed Shamim, commissioner, Bidhannagar Police commissionerate, said.
While Airtel helped with the publication, CDAC helped the police with the content of the 'Cyber Security' book.
The 28-page booklet talks about crimes stretching from password threats, e-mail security, online scams, social networking risks, online banking to shopping threats and mobile security.
The various topics, aimed to make teachers and students aware of cyber threats, are described along with graphics and bullet points, which targets the focus of the reader to the primary content of the page.
The page on online scams describes the most common types, like phishing scam, lottery scam and online scam, which we tend to ignore in our daily affairs.
The booklet not only talks about the online scams, but also describes the different ways through which they can be prevented.
"This book is like a preventive health care, a prescription that is being handed over, which will prevent people who are online most of the time from getting targetted by online scamsters and other threats.
This is a well conceived step taken by the Bidhannagar Police, " said A K Nath, executive director of CDAC.
Ravinder Singh Negi, CEO-West Bengal and Odisha, Bharti Airtel, said "We know the digitial revolution is happening very fast.
The cyber security booklet is an effort to educate and protect people who are in the process of enjoying the services."
header
