#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=hi_dss_HSTG_CerviSCAN
CerviSCAN - AI based Cervical Cancer Screening
CerviSCAN is an automated system for early detection and screening of cervical cancer by analysing digitized PAP smear.
The system applies advanced image processing and Deep Learning techniques to classify specimen as cancerous or not.
CerviSCAN screens out majority of negative slides, reducing workload of human expert.
Brief Description
Cervical cancer caused 2,80,000 deaths annually worldwide.
More than 70,000 of these occur in India.
Absence of systematic PAP screening programs coupled with highly skewed ratio of trained cytologists in relation to huge population of our country makes it leading cause of cancer deaths in the India
Main uses and domain
Primary/Family Health centres.
Mobile Ophthalmology Units
Population screening camps
Features and Technical Specifications
Analyses cervical cells for precancerous lesions and classifies the slide as NEGATIVE or REVIEW.
REVIEW slides are re-screened by an expert for final conclusion.
Automatically detects and removes biological artifacts
Supports standard Bethesda format for final reporting
Slide & Image level processing and automated batch processing
Able to screen out 60% of NEGATIVE cases thereby improving the screening efficiency while detecting 80% of positive cases with 93% accuracy in high grade lesions.
Printable formatted statistical reports in PDF & HTML
Configurable for multiple microscopes and users.
Platform required (if any)
Automated Slide scanner (optional)
Cyto-centrifuge for smear preparation (optional)
Automated slide Stainer (optional)
Software for image capture and archival along with patient detail
Workstation
Core i5, 3 Ghz with 4GB RAM or better configuration
Monitor with 1920x1080 resolution
Windows 7 64 bit OS
Workspace
Motorized table with height adjustment for mounting the fundus camera
Enclosed room with controlled lighting, so as not to interfere with the imaging
Download Brochure
Contact Details for Techno Commercial Information
DR ALEXANDER G
Group Head,
Health Informatics & Software Technology Group,
C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram
email - alex@cdac.in
header
