#URL => https://cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=ev_hpc_intel_presec_over_tool
hyPACK-2013
About
Tech Program
Multicore
ARM
Coprocessor
GPUs
Cluster
Applications
Reg
Multicore Technologies
Mode-1 Multi-cores
Memory Allocators
OpenMP
Intel TBB
Pthreads
Java - Threads
Charm++ Prog.
Message Passing (MPI)
MPI-OpenMP
MPI-Intel TBB
MPI-Pthread
Compiler Opt. Features
Threads-Perf.
Math. lib.
Threads-Prof.
& tools
Threads-I/O Perf.
PGAS:UPC/CAF/GA
Home
Software Threading : Intel Tools
Contents
Overview
1. Intel Software Development Tools Programs :
2. Intel Software Development Tools Assignment Programs:
3. Intel Tools Presentation :
4. Software Tools Demonstration Programs :
5. MPI :
6. PAPI :
7. Commoly Used Tools :
8. Comp.& Exec. : MPI :
9. Example Programs - MPI Tools on Clusters :
10. Example Programs - Using PAPI :
Intel Software Tools
A breif summary of selective Intel Multi Core Programming Enviornment tool suite is discussed in various parts of peep 2008 web-page.
Important Tools such as the  Intel VTune Performance Analyzer  which can be used to monitor porcessors events realted to multi-threaded performanace, the  Intel Thread Checker, the  Intel Thread Debugger  and the the  Intel Thread Profiler  have been used in peep 2008 and subsequent artiles brifely discuss the Intel Software tool Suite.
List of Programs - Demonstration Using Intel Software Development tools
Prime Single :
Example 1.1 :   Write a Simple CPP Program to count prime number with in a given range of integer.
(download Source Code )
view source
print
Assignment 1.1 :   Find Most Time Consuming Section within the code of Example 1.1
( download Assignment Guide  )
Prime OpenMP :
Example 2.1 :   Modify Example 1.1 , to write an OpenMP program to count prime number with in
(download Source Code )
Assignment 2.1 :   Use Intel Thread Checker to find thread related errors in source code of  Example 2.1
Example 3.1 :   Modify Example 2.1 , to eliminate all threading errors and produce corrected
version of source code.
( download Source Code )
Assignment 3.1 :   Use Intel Thread Profiler to find out performance bottleneck in  Example 3.1
(  download Assignment Guide  )
Example 4.1 :   Produce a optimized version of Prime OpenMP program (  Example 3.1  ) after
analysis using intel thread profiler.
( download Source Code )
header
copy to clipboard
?
