#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=tvm
C-DAC Centre @ Thiruvananthapuram
About Centre:
The centre at Thiruvananthapuram has been working in application oriented research, design and development for various industrial and customer requirements.
Over the years, Centre has acquired competency, expertise and extensive experience in the areas of Broadcast & Communications, Control & Instrumentation, Networking, Power Electronics, ASIC Design and Underwater Electronics.
Apart from the above, centre is also having National Resource center for computing in Malayalam, Resource Centre for Cyber Forensics, National Mission on Power Electronics Technology (NaMPET), Automation Systems Technology Centre (ASTeC), and Intelligent Transportation System (ITS).
The Centre has a VLSI/ASIC design center, PCB-CAD facility, DSP lab, Industrial design facility, Pilot production facility and a Technology information center.
The Centre through its diversified R&D activities in the core areas, has gained multi-disciplinary in-house expertise and so could take up and successfully complete many challenging mission mode products/projects in the last few years.
The centre also has a tradition of completing product development using the outputs of advanced technology research.
Developing the electronics products and systems of today demand interdisciplinary knowledge such as Networking, DSP, Analog, Microprocessor, VLSI, Communications protocols, RF, Power and a host of other specialized fields, which are very difficult and costly to acquire and assimilate.
The centre accorded prime importance to making such products easily productionable, testable and field maintainable, thereby ensuring highly reliable operation.
The technology development initiatives are focused in the identified core areas of Electronics and Information Technology, with funding from various Sponsors.
The outputs of these efforts coupled with the high-value expertise and experience gained are conceptualized as products, either entirely new, or with quantum improvements on those based on existing technology.
Scores of technologies developed have been transferred to Technology partners for large-scale production.
C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram is an ISO 9001:2015 certified R&D Centre for the Design, Development, Supply, Installation, Commissioning, Turnkey Implementation, Maintenance, Customer Support, Consultancy and Transfer of Technology of Products and Systems in the area of Electronics and Information Technology as well as Development and Implementation of Educational and Training Programmes.
This certification is based on the audit conducted by STQC (MeitY), accredited by National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB), India for ISO 9000 QMS.
header
TVM
