#URL => https://www.cdac.in/index.aspx?id=print_page&print=edu_ftp_mba_sem
MBA (Information Technology)
MBA Admission 2021-2022  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 917 KB, Date: 25/06/2021)
AICTE Compliance Report  (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 135 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
Fee structure:  (File Format: PDF, File Size: 439 KB , Date: 25/06/2021)
MBA (Information Technology) is a programme with a right blend of Management and Technology that transform the engineers to lead global businesses in an increasingly complex and dynamic environment.
It is conceived, designed and structured as a Two Year Full Time Management Programme approved by AICTE and affiliated to Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), Delhi.
CDAC Noida is conducting MBA programme specialized in Software Enterprise Management since 2006 with the objective to transform the technical professionals with equally strong managerial skills, to deploying IT for productivity enhancement and on-line decision making, to inculcate knowledge for optimum utilization of Enterprise Resource Planning and other IT Tools in business and to prepare students to manage and lead in global business scenario which is getting increasingly complex and dynamic.
The programme primarily aims to prepare the students as per industry requirements by exposing them to latest technology and tools used in current business scenario and on the line of digital india concept whereby students learn about various aspects pertaining to e-Governance & framework of ICT, e-Customer Relationship Management, Web Technologies, e-Supply Chain Management and e-Business Financial Modeling in an integrated manner so as to drive the company and nation towards improved productivity.
Admission Procedure
Admission to the MBA (Information Technology) Programme is made on the basis of the Common Entrance Test (CET).
Students meeting the eligibility criteria will be eligible to appear for the CET (code-116) conducted by GGSIP University during the month of May every year.
The detail admission details will be available at www.ipu.ac.in .
The eligibility Criteria for the MBA (Information Technology) programme is:
BE/ B.Tech with minimum of 60% marks
M.Sc (CS), M.Sc (IT), M.Sc (Electronics) with minimum of 60% marks
MCA with minimum of 60% marks
The procedure for admission in this course is given below:
See the advertisement in the month of February to April on GGSIP University www.ipu.ac.in
Candidates have to apply online.
Submit the online application form; please note that once you submit application form, you will not be able to change any details in the form once it is locked.
A written test CET is conducted in the month of May for those who applied for CET through online.
Result of CET will be announced within 15 days of conduct of the CET exam.
Counseling schedule will be announced by the GGSIP University during May-June.
Qualified CET students will be called for the counseling as per the notification published at GGSIP University website.
Students appearing for the counseling should strictly follow the rule as per notification.
The documents to be submitted along with the course fee details will also be notified at the GGSIP University.
After admission the student has to join the institute where he/she has taken the admission with admission receipt, 5 Passport size latest color photograph, soft copy of the passport size photograph and original certificates and mark sheets for verification.
Laboratory Facilities
The state of art laboratory equipped with latest systems and tools is available for the MBA Students on one-to-one system per student basis.
All the systems are connected by LAN.
SAP is installed in all the systems with internet connectivity license from Queensland University of Technology under SAP University Alliances Program.
Library
The Library has a collection of over 21161 publications which include books, bound volumes of journals, thesis/dissertations, rare books, reports, government documents.
The Library has subscription of 74 periodicals/journals.
The books are issued to the students for the maximum for 15 days except reference book, Data books, Directories, Hand books, Reports, Standards.
The books, which are not available in the library, are procured on the request of members.
The reprographic facility is available for all members and students.
IEEE and ACM online access of Journals and Conference Proceedings are also available inside the institute.
More Details
Hostel
C-DAC, Noida has its own hostel inside the campus at B-30, Sector 62, Noida.
There are two separate but interconnected wings for boys and girls each having 50 twin sharing spacious rooms with air - conditioned dining hall and other modern amenities to ensure comfortable stay of the students.
Placement
CDAC, Noida is equipped with a state -of -the art placement cell that has ensured campus visit of top class recruiters over the years to help us in providing opportunity to 100% students in their placements.
The average pay packages offered to the students were well over the normal pay packages offered in the market.
The companies visited the campus last year for the MBA students are:
Essar, Reliance, HCL , Textron, Varun Beverages , CSC , Sopra , Shriram Pistons, RB Capital IQ, Mind-Infotech, Prospecta Software, CGI, C1 India, Merino Services, Ridings India, Reckitt Benckiser, EP Online Marketing, Shriram Pistons & Rings, Brila Financial Distribution, Fujitsu, Birla Gold & Precious Metals, Neelkanth Digital Infonet, NIC, Velocity Software, Fibcom, Birla Capital, Birla Finance, Mobulous, Agilis International, Ultraglobal, DELL, Xerox, CPA Global, India Infoline, CDAC, Naukri.com, Mastech, 99acres.
MBA (SEM) Course Scheme
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 544 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
Faculty Details
Download (File Format: .pdf, File Size: 297 KB, Date: 28/8/2014)
Awards & Honors of Students
Ms.Shruti Dewan  (2011-2013) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
MBA in Software Enterprise Management students team, Ms.Nidhi Mathur & Ms.Anchal Singhal (The Good Samaritans-Surplus Food:Lets Distribute) was adjudged as the SECOND best team of the country by SAP University Alliances APP Rumble India 2013 competition organized by SAP University Alliances and Labs India.
Ms Nidhi Gupta (2010-2012) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
Ms Deepica Garg (2010-2012) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
Ms. Neeti Panwar (2009-2011) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
Ms.Sripriya Sharma, (2008-2010 Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
Ms.Anjali Arora,  (2007-2009) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
MBA in Software Enterprise Management students won the First Prize in designing CDAC Noida webpage in February 2007.
Mr.Aayush Rattan Vats, (2006-2008) Batch, MBA in Software Enterprise Management won Gold Medal for achieving first rank in academics.
For Further Details Please Contact:
MBA Group
Academic Block , B-30, Institution Area,
Sector - 62, Noida - 201307, UP, India
Ph. No: 0120-3063377
email: maryjacintha [at] cdac [dot] in
header
bullet
download
